{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "92RQK2699C4C",
  "date": "2012-12-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2012
	The monthly meeting of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, December 17, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Members present:
	Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
	Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Asst. Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Asst. Director, Adult and Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Marie Conlin, Planner; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Lisa Stump, Counsel, Lashly & Baer; Josh Richardson, McMahon Berger; Michelle Bock, Financial Advisor; and Ameena Mohyuddin, St. Louis County Government.
	Others Attending:
	Kris Mooney, Mary Arnhart, Ed Clark,  Lori Boschert, Keir Haug,  Rachel Nowell, Stacy Berger, Trudy Williams, Emily Althoff,  Donna Spaulding, Laura Kasak, Erin Magner, Kimberly Clark, Julia Mangner, Michael Cohen, Paul Bayless, Matt Lakin, Gina Becker, Jennifer Alexander, Anna Strackeljahn, Colleen Hall, Jennifer McBride, Darryl Wallace, Anna Schurk, Joyce Loving, Conrad Rader, Parkie Peck, Alaina Culbertson, Christina Pryor, Barb Reale, Anne Arthur, Jennifer Jung, Connie Dee,  Edith Isele, Marsha Ramey, Scott Holl, Natalia Catlett, Roz Kohen, Lisa Haddox, Steve Hibbler, Stephanie Nordmann, Kate Gerblick and Sandra Williams.
	Approval of Minutes
	The Board approved the November 19, 2012 minutes (Cunnane, Kenyon)
	Public Comment
	There were no public comments.
	Treasurer's Report
	Kristen Sorth reported that the Library received $89,024 as a rebate for the 370/Missouri bottoms Tax Increment Financing (TIF) in Hazelwood.  The Library also received $138,678 in E-Rate discounts in November.
	The final expense for completion of the Indian Trails roof replacement was paid in the amount of $72,920.  This expense was covered by insurance proceeds.
	The Library purchased replacement chairs for staff at Headquarters at a cost of $25,038 from the State of Missouri Contract.  Chairs were last replaced in 1999.
	The HVAC controls were updated at the remaining branches at a cost of $48,582.  This was approved by the Library Board at the September 2012 meeting.
	The Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
	Director's Report
	Mr. Pace reported that he had received a number of calls regarding Proposition L.   He said many of the customers are anxious to know the timetable and what is planned for their particular branch.  We registered about 19,000 readers for the Winter Reading Club through the month of November.  Mr. Pace also reported that Circulation was up by 10% from November of 2011.  He said we are on pace to surpass the goal of 14 million items circulated by the end of the year.
	Mr. Pace said he met with representatives of the Municipal Library Consortium on December 10. They requested a reduction in the costs associated with the reciprocal borrowing agreement.  He also met with the Historic Preservation Commission regarding plans for the Lewis and Clark Branch.  In regard to reciprocal lending, Dr. Beckwith said he liked things just the way they are. The other board members had no comment.
	Mr. Pace said the Library will hire a part-time community garden staff person through a partnership with Gateway Greening.  The Library will pay half their salary and Gateway Greening will pay the other half.  The individual will spend at least 50% of their time at the Library's community garden.
	Mr. Pace announced that Kristen Sorth will be the administrator in charge during his absence.  In her absence, the other assistant directors will take charge according to their years of service with the Library.
	Dr. Beckwith requested information on how the priority list was developed for projects resulting from Proposition L funds. Mr. Pace discussed how it was based on need and usage.  He said it would take approximately three years for Phase 1 to be completed.   He said in the spring, after the selling of bonds, the Library plans to start by hiring architects and design engineers.
	Mr. Pace reported that restaurant owner Robbie Montgomery, who is the star of the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN) "Welcome to Sweetie Pies"  will be the Black History Celebration kickoff speaker at Headquarters at 7 p.m. Friday, January 25.
	Old Business
	None
	New Business
	Summer Reading Club Fines Amnesty 2013
	The Board approved an amnesty program with a $10.00 maximum allowed per card for each child or teen that registers for the Summer Reading Club in 2013. Fines may be waived on a juvenile, teen, or adult card. Only overdue fines will be waived. Replacement charges for items that were never returned will not be waived (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	Actuarial Assumptions
	Milliman, the Library Pension Plan’s actuary, performed a review of selected actuarial methods and assumptions used in the annual funding and disclosure calculations for the Pension Plan.   At the May Pension Board Meeting, they presented the Pension Board with a recommendation for new actuarial methods and assumptions.  The Pension Board took the recommendation under advisement and decided to revisit it at the November Pension Board Meeting.  The Pension Board reviewed and considered Milliman’s recommendation and believes that it is in the best interest of the Plan and the participants to accept the recommended changes to the actuarial assumptions.
	The  Library Board approved the Pension Board recommendation to accept Milliman’s recommendation for changing the actuarial methods and assumptions and authorized the administration, with the assistance of the Pension Plan’s legal counsel, to amend the Plan to incorporate the actuarial changes recommended in the Milliman Report (Sachs/Cunnane).
	Underwriter
	The Library Administration and the Library’s Financial Advisor are recommending Bank of America Merrill Lynch to serve as the senior manager with the lowest fee at .302% of the principal amount of the issuance. Michelle Bock was present to answer any questions.  In addition, the advisors are recommending Stifel Nicolaus and Edward Jones as co-managers.  The Board approved the recommendations (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	Unassigned Fund Balance
	An important part of the process leading up to the bond issue is working with the rating agencies.  The rating agencies will review the Library’s finances and assign a credit rating accordingly.  It is anticipated the Library’s bond issue will be highly rated.  One of the items that will be reviewed by the rating agencies is the unassigned fund balance.  The Board established a fund balance and reserve policy in 2011.   This policy defines classifications for fund balances, one of which is the unassigned fund balance held in reserve for contingencies.  Currently, the minimum amount of the unassigned fund balance must be between 10% and 15% of the following year’s budgeted operational expenses with a target of 12.5%.   In 2013, we plan to submit a recommendation to the Library Board to increase the minimum amount of the unassigned fund.
	Adjourn
	The Board adjourned at 4:11 pm (Sachs/Kenyon).  All approved by voice vote.
	Respectfully submitted,
	______________________________________
	Chingling Tai
	Secretary