{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Eureka Hills Branch156 Eureka Towne CenterEureka, MO 630253:30 p.m.",
  "unique": "8T8LQ9579EF8",
  "date": "2012-05-21T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, May 21, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library district at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		ATTENDANCE
		Board Members Present:
		Dr.  Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		 Dr Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Charles Pace, Director, Gary Holdefer, Associate Director & comptroller; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services, Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration, Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Marie Conlin, Planner,  Bryan LeMoine, McMahon Berger; Bill Winningham, Milliman; Mike Zwiever, Milliman; Bill Lowery, LAC; and Melissa Vighi, Counsel, Lashly & Baer.
		Others attending:  Denise Keller, Robbin Oehler, Donna Spaulding, Jenny Via, Kate Gerblick, Darryl Wallace, Conrad Rader, Keir Haus, Mary Arnhart, Amy Hanaway, Christina Pryor, Lisa Haddox, Jennifer Jung, Ed Clark, Kathy  Condon, Michael Cohen, Carolyn Parmer, Julie Mangner, Dottie Wobbe, Emily Althoff, Lynn Grimshaw, Anna Schurk, Gina Becker, Parkie Peck and Sandra Williams.
		Approval of Minutes
		The April 16, 2012 minutes were approved (Kenyon, Sachs).
		Public Comments
		There were no public comments.
		Treasurer's Report
		Mr. Holdefer reported that the County released taxes held in escrow this month. These were taxes that were paid under protest ($3,444,323). He also said that the West County Center TIF distributed surplus funds of $28,535 this month while the Manchester TIF distributed $5,938. The Library received $214,787 for the 3rd and 4th quarters of the state's fiscal year.
		Administration recommends that the Board accepts the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Director's Report
		Customer service issues
		Mr. Pace reported that other than the flurry of activity surrounding the media coverage for the levy campaign, the past month has been fairly typical in most respects. During a few days of hot weather, the Library received the first of what might be a number of complaints about the temperature at the Tesson Ferry Branch. The aging HVAC system at this location often struggles to keep the building comfortable during the summer months. He said additional mobile cooling units were ordered to try to keep the building temperature from getting too hot.
		Mr. Pace said the months of April and May tend to be a bit slower than earlier in the year as school winds down. The months of June-August are typically the busiest time of the year and we are expecting record numbers of participants for our Summer Reading Programs. Statistics for April show that our circulation is up by 5.75% compared to April of 2011. Current trends indicate that the Library will finish the year with record circulation, in excess of 13.5 million items, and with a record number of visits to our facilities of more than six million.
		Major Library events
		Saturday, May 5th, the Library hosted former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright who discussed her thoughtful memoir of her formative years in Czechoslovakia during the tumult of Nazi occupation, World War II, and the onset of the Cold War.  Mr. Pace said Ms. Albright is a very warm and gracious individual and she entertained the crowd with a number of stories about interesting people and events she has been a part of during her storied career. The evening format was an interview by local radio personality Don Marsh followed by Q/A with the audience. An enthusiastic crowd of over 600 was in attendance. Proceeds from ticket sales for this event will benefit the Center for Family History Project. Ms. Albright’s visit was co-sponsored by the St Louis Community College District.
		On May 11, the Library also hosted St. Louis native Andy Cohen who is Bravo TV's executive vice president of programming and development and the mastermind behind such hits as Top Chef and the Real Housewives franchises. Mr. Cohen is known for his wit and humor. We had a very large crowd for this event.
		Community Activities/Branch Visits
		Mr. Pace visited the Eureka Hills Branch to meet with members of the Eureka Project and to discuss how they might be most helpful to us as we proceed with the election campaign and our various capital projects. He had several discussions both in person and over the telephone with members of the campaign committee to discuss plans for the levy effort.   Mr. Pace also attended the author receptions for Madeleine Albright and for Andy Cohen and spoke with many of our key donors and Foundation Board members at these events. He has scheduled an upcoming meeting with the new interim Superintendent of the Clayton School District to discuss our building projects and their continued interest in a joint venture with the library, if any.
		Facilities
		Mr. Pace reported that a severe hail storm on the night of April 28 resulted in significant damage to several of the roofs of our buildings. The worst problems were at Natural Bridge which suffered a total loss to its roof. The damage allowed rainwater to leak into the building. Thanks to a quick response by the branch staff and the facilities department, we were able to cover and/or move most of the technology and computers and minimize the loss. Due to multiple leaks and continued rain, the building had to be closed for two days while emergency repairs were made. In addition to the loss of the roof at Natural Bridge, the roof at Indian Trails will also require replacement, as well as large sections of the roof at the Bridgeton Trails Branch. The work at Indian Trails is complicated by the fact that testing shows the roof shingles contain asbestos, which will require abatement procedures to be followed. We are working closely with our insurance adjustor from Fireman’s Fund and most if not all of these losses should be covered by the Library’s insurance policy.
		A lightning strike is responsible for a blown electrical panel on our HVAC system at the Lewis and Clark Branch. The failure of the HVAC system required the branch to close early one day due to extreme heat. Emergency repairs were made and the system is once again operational. We are also in the process of repairing and replacing leaky water pipes that run under the Headquarters Building.
		Upcoming Library Events
		Mr. Pace mentioned several upcoming author events including Jeffrey Deaver and Ace Atkins.
		RESOLUTION
		Mr. Pace said that a resolution would be presented in honor of Gary Holdefer's last Board meeting. Mr. Holdefer gave farewell remarks. His retirement is May 31. Dr. Beckwith thanked him for his years of service and told him he will be missed. Dr. Tai thanked him for his service.  Mrs. Cunnane thanked him for helping her acquire a better understanding of the Library finances. Mrs. Kenyon thanked him for his service and work ethic. Steve Sachs wished him the best.
		EUREKA HILLS
		Dottie Wobbe gave information on the Eureka Branch including its history and the customers that are served. She said the community has a small town atmosphere where many of the customers are known by their first names. There is a very active Chamber of Commerce in Eureka. There are a variety of schools in the community. The Branch serves zip code 63025 and also has Jefferson County residents who use the library. She said there is a great relationship with Rockwood schools.
		SUMMER AMNESTY FOR CHILDREN
		Mr. Pace presented a summer fines amnesty proposal for children. He explained that some children and teens were unable to participate in Summer Reading Club due to excessive fines on their library cards which prevented them from checking out materials. He recommended granting amnesty for overdue fines to children and teen cardholders who register for the Summer Reading Club between June 1 and August 4, 2012. The Board approved the request (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		UNFINISHED BUSINESS
		NONE
		NEW BUSINESS
		UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY
		Gib Van Cleve reported that the Library needs to upgrade the Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) located in the data center. The UPS protects our Information Library System, Public Internet PC access systems, security systems, phone system, accounting systems, web filter, firewall, file servers, network components, etc. The Board approved the purchase of the MGE Galaxy 3500 and installation services from the Bick Group at a cost of  $26,378 (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS
		The Library's Safety Committee consisting of Library employees (Gary Holdefer, Kristen Sorth, Darryl Wallace, Ed Clark and Laura Kasak) and risk management representatives from the Library insurance company and broker have been researching the use and benefits of automated external defibrillators (AED). In order to assist the health of those in our community and our employees, the Administration recommends the purchase of Automated Eternal Defibrillators at six Library branches. The Library will purchase these devices through the State of Missouri's Cooperative Contract at a cost of $8,000. The Board approved the request (Cunnane/Sachs).
		PROFESSIONAL SERVICES (FINANCIAL ADVISOR)
		The Library Administration requested the submission of qualifications from qualified firms to provide Financial Advisory Services to the Library District.  The firm selected will assist the Library in the development of its debt management policies and further it’s understanding of the municipal bond market.  Staff independently reviewed and ranked the proposals.  Administration recommends that the Library Board select Piper Jaffray as its Financial Advisor.  The Board approved the recommendation (Sachs/Cunnane).
		PROFESSIONAL SERVICES (BOND COUNSEL)
		The Library Administration recommends the firm of Gilmore & Bell as the lowest and best firm to provide bond counsel services. The firm has a national reputation in the field of tax exempt bond financing and in 2011 ranked first in both Missouri and in the United States in the number of bond counsel opinions rendered on municipal bond issues. The Board approved the firm of Gilmore & Bell as the lowest and best firm to provide bond counsel services at an estimated cost of $168,000 (Sachs/Cunnane).
		VOLUNTEER POLICY
		The Volunteer Policy was last revised and approved by the Library Board in October of 2009. This revision being proposed now includes a statement regarding criminal background investigations for volunteers. The Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the changes to the Library's Volunteer Policy. The Board approved the changes to the Library's Volunteer Policy (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY
		Library employees often develop extensive works and materials as a part of their assigned work responsibilities. In some cases, this information is presented to groups as part of training programs or at conferences. The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the Intellectual Property Compliance Policy The Board approved the administration’s request for this policy change (Cunnane/Sachs).
		PETITIONS & ELECTIONEERING POLICY
		The Library Administration recommends a revision to the Petitions & Electioneering policy.  The proposed revision includes a statement that the distribution of election literature and the posting of election related signs is permitted on Library property only on election days and as long as this activity takes place at least 25 feet from polling places.  The Board approved the change to the Petitions & Electioneering policy (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		EXCUSED ABSENCE
		​Dr. Tai received an excused absence from the June 25th meeting.
		ADJOURNMENT
		Mrs. Cunnane moved that the meeting adjourn. Steve Sachs seconded. All voiced voter approval. The meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.