{
  "name": "Regular Meeting of September 17, 2012",
  "description": "Library Board Meeting",
  "unique": "8XVT6V75E610",
  "date": "2012-09-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012
	3:30 P.M.
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, September 17, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Members present:
	Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
	Dr Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	ADMINISTRATOR'S AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
	Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Asst. Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Asst. Director, Adult and Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Marie Conlin, Planner; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Lisa Stump Counsel, Lashly & Baer, and Julie Leicht, St. Louis County Government.
	SLCL Staff attending:
	Rachel Nowell, Kathy Wiese, Lisa Haddox, Dottie Wobbe, Jennifer Alexander, Parkie Peck, Anna Huckeby, Edith Isele, Roz Kohen, Emily Althoff, Ed Clark, Connie Dee, Erin Magner, Jenny Via, Michael Cohen, Cheri Remington, Matt Lakin, Trudy Williams, Lynn Grimshaw, Aaron Eller, Tracy Fletcher, Marie Conlin, Kimberly Clark, Ellen Meschke, Denise Keller, Stephanie Nordmann, Shelly Akins, Sarah Wood, Alaina Culbertson, Natalie Catlett, Lori Boschert, Anne Arthur, Nicole Clawson, Gina Becker, Paul Bayless, Conrad Rader, Keir Haug, Joyce Loving, Eric Button, Anna Schurk, Jennifer Jung, Julia Mangner, Kate Gerblick and Sandy Williams.
	 Approval of Minutes
	The  minutes from August 20, 2012 were approved (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	 Public Comment
	There were no public comments.
	 Reports
	Treasurer's Report
	Kristen Sorth reported that prepaid expenses for periodical subscriptions were paid in August.  She also said that the last outstanding payment for 2011 municipal reciprocal lending was received from University City Public Library.
	Ms. Sorth also reported that during the month of August, three payrolls were issued.  There was an adjustment to record the prepaid portion of electronic databases which resulted in a credit in the Collection-eResources account.
	A two-week radio ad campaign promoting the services offered by the Library took place in August.
	Professional invoices paid during the month were for legal fees.  The replacement of the uninterruptible power supply (UPS) system was completed. We also paid the expense for the off-duty officer for the month of July.
	The Treasurer's Report was approved subject to audit (Sachs/Kenyon).
	Director's Report
	Customer service issues
	Mr. Pace reported that a number of customers reacted very favorably to the informational commercials run in August; the various statistical measures that were included were of particular interest. August was a fairly quiet month for patron comments. He received one phone call from a gentleman who was unhappy with our holds limits policy.
	The following information was provided by Stephanie Nordmann regarding our circulation figures for August:
	In August 2012, library circulation was 1,254,595
	This was an increase of over 11% from August 2011.
	Current projections show the library exceeding the goal of 14 million circulations for 2012.
	Natural Bridge circulation has increased the most percentage-wise over 2011, with a 22.07% increase over Jan - Aug 2011.
	Lewis and Clark is close behind at 21.5%
	Headquarters has seen the highest increase in circulation number-wise, with an increase of 74,202 circulations over Jan - Aug 2011.
	Daniel Boone follows with an increase of 70,277 circulations.
	Community Activities/Branch Visits
	Mr. Pace reported visiting Tesson Ferry (twice) Lewis and Clark (twice), Natural Bridge, Indian Trails, Florissant Valley, Jamestown Bluffs, Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, and Grand Glaize during the past month. He also took part in interviews for the Call newspaper in south county and on KTRS radio. Together with Dr. Beckwith, he presented to the 24 in 1 group at the Bel Ridge municipal center regarding Prop L.   He and Dr. Beckwith also met with the Reverend Tommy Pierson at the Lewis and Clark Branch to help organize and outreach to the African-American community. Mr. Pace had a meeting with Mayor Schneider of Florissant to enlist his support. Mr. pace discussed upcoming meetings with Clayton Chamber of Commerce, the Post Dispatch Editorial Board, Affton Chamber of Commerce, and the Ethical Society. In addition to this, he has had a number of meetings with various business leaders to secure their support for the campaign.
	Staff In-Service Day
	Mr. Pace reminded the Board that all library locations will be closed on Monday, October 8 for staff in-service.
	Facilities
	Mr. Pace reported parking lot sealing and striping projects have been completed at Indian Trails, Rock Road, and Daniel Boone. Work on the skylight replacements at Thornhill should be getting underway soon. Teen areas at Lewis and Clark and Oak Bend are nearing completion and should be finished in the next few weeks. Roof replacement materials for Indian Trails and Bridgeton Trails are on order and a preconstruction meeting is scheduled for September 28. Mr. Pace said delivery on the new entryway door for Meramec Valley is expected soon; in preparation for this, the entry hallway is being painted. Finally, construction of the canopies at Eureka Hills is underway and should be finished soon.
	Old Business
	The Board approved the Administrations’ recommendation to purchase additional radio ads, not to exceed $100,000, to continue the Library's educational efforts in the community (Cunnane/Tai). The money will come from the Public Relations budget.
	New Business
	2012 Tax Rates
	The County Board of Tax Equalization sent information on September 17th, 2012.  Existing property values are up 1.0 percent since the prior year. The 2012 tax rates along with the surtax on commercial property will provide over 90% of the cash income needed to operate in 2013.  Tax rates must be set by September 30th of each year.
	The Board approved the staff recommendation that the full tax ceilings for all subclasses of real estate and personal property be assessed at the 2012 tax rates (Kenyon/Tai).  The vote was unanimous.  Assessments are as follows:  Real property residential - $11,475,885,170; Agricultural - $4,609,500; Commercial - $5,218,618,711 and Personal Property is $2,984,750,639.
	2012 Budget Revision
	The Budget Committee consists of the Director, the Administrative Team along with the Community Services Administrator and the Finance Manager. The committee looked at where we are currently compared to what we budgeted.  The budget was revised based on what we have already spent in 2012 combined with what we expect to spend during the rest of the year.
	The Board approved the 2012 Budget Revision as recommended by the Administration (Cunnane/Tai).
	HVAC Controls
	The Library Board approved the Administration recommendation to purchase a Windows-based automated control system for thirteen branches (Kenyon/Cunnane). The branches include Bridgeton Trails, Cliff Cave, Mid-County, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Indian Trails, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Prairie Commons, Rock Road, Thornhill, Weber Road and Lewis and Clark. Automation Solutions Group will provide and install the required components and software and will also train staff on the use of the new equipment.  The cost to update the controls is $134,950.  While not listed as a 2012 budget item, we are able to make this upgrade with money available in the capital improvements fund. Upgraded HVAC controls will use Windows based software which results in many benefits to the Library including energy and efficiency savings.
	Diversity Statement
	The Library Administration recommended approval of the Diversity Statement for construction contracts as submitted by the Library’s attorney,  Lashly & Baer.
	After discussion, the Board approved the Library Diversity Statement policy with an amendment.  The policy as approved, has a goal of 15% for Minority Owned Businesses (MBE) and a 5% goal for Women Owned Businesses (WBE) (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	The Board approved the Diversity Statement as recommended by counsel(Sachs/Kenyon).
	Adjourn
	Mrs. Cunnane moved that the Meeting adjourn to convene executive session.  Mr. Sachs seconded.  All approved with a voice vote.  The meeting adjourned at 4:20 p.m.
	Respectfully Submitted,
	___________________________                                                                ___________________
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                                                   Date