{
  "name": "Regular Meeting - (First LIVE Meeting)",
  "description": "Headquarters1640 S. Lindbergh BlvdSt. Louis, MO 63131Auditorium3:30 p.m.",
  "unique": "8SNLFW565BF5",
  "date": "2012-04-16T00:00:00Z"
}

---

St. Louis County Library District
	Meeting of the Board
	​Headquarters Branch
	​Monday, April 16, 2012
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, April 16, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library district at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Members present
	Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Charles Pace, Director; Gary Holdefer, Associate Director & Comptroller; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services, Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration, Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Marie Conlin,Planner and Lisa Stump, Counsel, Lashly & Baer.
	Others attending include:  Jenny Via, Denise Keller, Natalia Catlett, Marsha Ramey, Kate Gerblick, Erin Chapman, Jennifer Jung, Kathy Condon-Boettcher, Edith Isele, Amy Hanaway, Trudy Williams, Lisa Haddox, Anna Strackeljahn, Parkie Peck, Anna Schurk, Aaron Ellen, Keir Haul, Jennifer McBride, Connie Dee, Kathy Wiese, Anne Authur, Roz Kohen, Barbara Brain, Christina Pryor, Paul Bayless, Colleen Hall, Robbin Oehler, Emily Althoff, Sarah Wood, Carrie Robb, Debbie Podgorski, Gina Becker, Lori Boschert, Stacy Berger, Anna Huckeby, Barbara Turkington, Donna Spaulding, Kimberly Clark, Mary Arnhart, Steve Hibbler, , Dottie Wobbe, Conrad Rader, Kate Grantham, Laura Kasak,Michael Cohen and Cynthia Schultz.
	1. Agenda
		Procedural: A. Roll Call
		All are present. Mrs. Cunnane was present by conference telephone.
	2. Approval of Minutes
		Action: A. Approval of Minutes for March 12, 2012
		The March 12, 2012 minutes were approved.
		Motion to approve the minutes of March 12, 2012.
		Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Elena G Kenyon.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
	3. Public Comments
		Information: A. Guidelines for Public Comment
		There were no comments from the public.
	4. Reports
		Action: A. Treasurer's Report Executive Summaries for February 2012 and March 2012.
		Mr. Holdefer presented the February and March reports. Financial Institution Taxes are twice that of last year in the amount of $144,000. The use of credit cards for fine payments continue to increase. There was an expenditure of $123 thousand made to iii for the annual renewal of the circulation operating software. PR spent $85,729 on the informational campaign. Three payrolls were issued during the month of March. The Board approved annual pension payment in March for $1,403,653 was transferred to the Pension Plan. Insurance payments for worker's comp, property and director and officers coverage were paid.
		Motion to approve the Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
		Motion by Dr Chingling Tai, second by Edith Cunnane.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
		Action: B. Treasurer's Report
		Information, Report: C. April Director's Report
		Director’s Report
		April 2012
		Customer service issues
		Mr. Pace reported that there were several informal comments for the past month with customers expressing concern regarding issues with the library catalog having a slow response time. He said the issues should be fixed now since we have completed migration to a new, much faster, server but we will continue to monitor the situation and act accordingly if any problems crop up. He also said there were a number of customers who were upset that the grass was too high at some of our south county branches. Normally, we don’t have our grounds maintenance contractor begin mowing until April, but due to the unusually warm March we instructed them to start two weeks early this year. The mowing has been completed and they should be on the regular spring grounds schedule at this point.
		Mr. Pace said there were several comments from customers thanking either individual staff members or the staff in a particular branch or department for their help and assistance. One gentleman noted that he had been laid off from his job and he said that while he has been out of work the library has been a “real lifesaver”. We have set up a form on our staff intranet where library employees can collect these sorts of stories and we may do follow up interviews with some customers to use their personal stories for promotion and marketing purposes.
		the Library hosted the following major Library author events.
		T.C. Boyle, "When the Killing's Done"
		Thursday, March 15, 7:00 p.m. Mr. Boyle has visited us a couple of times previously and is always a fan favorite. Roughly 150 people attended this presentation.
		Kadir Nelson, "Heart and Soul: The Story of America and African-Americans" visited Friday, March 16, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Auditorium. Kadir Nelson, an accomplished, award-winning artist, has created a moving introduction to the history of America and African Americans, from colonial days through the civil rights movement. Written in the voice of "Everywoman," an unnamed narrator whose forbearers came to this country on slave ships and who lived to cast her vote for the first African American president, "Heart and Soul" touches on the great transformative events of that history. Mr. Pace said about 100 people attended this event including many children. Students from the Halls Ferry Elementary School sent a thank you to the Library for hosting this event. This children's event was presented by the 2012 Black History Month Celebration committee.
		The Library hosted Anne Lamott, "Some Assembly Required: A Journal of My Son's First Son" on
		Saturday, March 24, 7:00 pm - Library Headquarters, Main Reading Room. This was part of the 2012 Read St. Louis Memoir Selection.
		In "Some Assembly Required," Anne Lamott enters a new and unexpected chapter of her own life: grandmotherhood. Stunned to learn that her son, Sam, is about to become a father at nineteen, Lamott begins a journal about the first year of her grandson Jax's life. By turns poignant and funny, honest and touching, "Some Assembly Required" is the true story of how the birth of a baby changes a family. Lamott is the author of the New York Times bestsellers "Grace (Eventually)," "Plan B," "Operating Instructions," as well as seven novels. We had a huge turnout for Ms. Lamont, the crowd was estimated at more than 500 and everyone was very excited to see and visit with her.
		The Library hosted children's author Mo Willems on
		Monday, April 2, 2012, 6:00 pm-Mary Institute and Country Day School (MICDS), Danforth Chapel.
		The visit by well known children’s author Mo Willems drew an enthusiastic crowd of about 360 people. Staff members from our youth services department acted out some of the stories from Mr. Willems books as people were coming into the auditorium and there was also a slide show as well as readings by Mr. Willems. This is the second time that Mo Willems has visited the St. Louis County Library; the event was moved off site due to the time of day and not wishing to impact our services to the public.
		Community Activities/Branch Visits
		Mr. Pace said during the past month he visited the Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Natural Bridge, and Lewis and Clark branches. He had the opportunity to host Vivienne Beckett who is the director of the Scenic Regional Library system which covers the counties just to our west. He also took Vivienne on a tour of several of the Library facilities and talked about some of the innovative programs and services that we currently provide. He also attended an event to mark the installation of Becky Spurgeon as the new President of Interface Construction. Becky is a member of our gala committee and a strong supporter of the Library. He also had meetings with Joyce Aboussie, Paul Zemitsch, and Lorna Godwin to discuss issues related to our fall tax campaign.
		Facilities
		Mr. Pace said installation of new electronic door locks should be getting underway shortly at all locations. These new door locks can be reprogrammed from a central location, unlike our current system which requires a staff member to visit each location and make any changes to the code manually. The new system should be much more efficient. Camera equipment is in and the Board will be presented with a recommendation later in the meeting to approve hiring an outside electrical contractor to complete this installation process. We will then have security cameras in place at all locations and this will complete a series of security upgrades we began several years ago. We have also installed and begun to use a new thermal scanner at our Rock Road Branch to get a more accurate tally of people entering and leaving the facility. The success of this pilot project will determine whether or not we move forward with this technology at other locations. The thermal scanner was something we learned about during the staff visit to the King County Library System.
		PLA Conference
		Mr. Pace said the PLA Conference in Philadelphia was truly an exciting event. He attended a total of seven sessions over the course of three days and had the opportunity to network with his colleagues from other major library systems around the country. One session that he attended that was particularly interesting was presented by Rolf Hapel, the director of the Aarhaus Library in Denmark. He talked about a number of innovations they are planning including, interactive displays for children, a digital content creation area, RFID smart boards to relay library information, and many others. Mr. Pace said he might be able to incorporate some of the ideas in future building designs.He also plans on using some of the information that he gathered at a future manager’s meeting to help the Library as an organization think about how we might become a truly 21st century library. He thanked the Board and the taxpayers of St. Louis County for making his attendance at this event possible.
		Administrator Reports
		Mr. Pace introduced Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director of Advancement to report on her areas of responsibility and role within the Library.
		Barbara Turkington presented the staff who report to her. Jim Bogart., Jennifer McBride, Carrie Robb, Debbie Podgorski and Marie Conlin.  Ms. Turkington discussed the following.
		• Foundation focus
		For additional Library Foundation funding, we are targeting grants and Foundations that focus on children, literacy and health, such as the Saigh Foundation, AP Green, St. Anthony’s Foundation, Boeing and Build-A-Bear Workshop. Children’s health and literacy are a new focus for the Foundation.
		• Foundation board overhaul
		The Board requirements and job descriptions have been developed and reviewed and have been sent to marketing for formatting. The concept has been reviewed by the Foundation Board President
		• Rams sponsorship
		The Rams sponsorship of a new Teen Center at the Lewis and Clark branch has been finalized. The award will be 25K. Additionally, we are working with Charter Communications to secure funding for computers for the Teen Center
		• Make a difference campaign
		The Make a Difference Campaign webpage will go live on Wednesday. Making a difference will be a compilation of stories and musings by library patrons.
		• Suspense night
		The very popular suspense night, was held on April 18th. This event featured four out of town up and coming mystery writers, who flew in from out of town for the event. This is the seventh year for this successful event.
		• Donor Event
		The Annual Donor Appreciation Lunch will be held April 26 at noon in the main auditorium. The speaker will be Nancy Gibbs, Executive Editor of Time Magazine and author of the Presidents’ Club. Ms. Gibbs’ book is the cover story of Time magazine this week.
		Read St. Louis, Madeline Albright will have a reception co sponsored by SLCC. Daniel Silva and others. Suspense series upcoming with four authors. This is the first time the Library is participating in National Book Week for children. Summer Reading club (SRC) is now in print. She is working with the Salvation Army. Make a Difference campaign with stories from public. Facebook hits at an all time high. Targeting new groups for funding. He department is working on the Gala and Friends appreciation luncheon. Lewis and Clark Branch now has a sponsor for teen a center. There is a Giving advisory Group formed on the Foundation Board. There is a new Pilot program for Normandy School district by the Football Rams.
		Dr. Beckwith thanked Ms. Turkington for such a thorough report.
	5. Unfinished Business
	NONE
	6. New Business
		Information: A. Diversity Report
		Kristen Sorth gave the annual report on diversity. She included a new report this year with summary comparison percentage and fte data. This report reflects five years of data. Ms. Sorth announced that Mary Arnhart, assistant human resources manager is now manager of the department and has taken over the job of interviewing applicants. A new scholarship program rewarding staff pursuing a degree in Library science is being developed. We continue our tuition reimbursement program. Discussion ensured. Dr. Beckwith noted the branches that have declining diversity and asked for more information on them. He also expressed that he was pleased that the ITS department has a high percentage of diversity. Ms. Sorth reported that the Library has its highest percentage ever in minority representation and they will continue to work toward improvements.
		Action: B. Security Camera (Installations)
		Gary Holdefer proposed installing security cameras and recorders at Cliff Cave, Grand Glaize, Jamestown Bluffs and Thornhil branches. He presented three quotes with a low bid by Dimaggo Electric.
		Recommendation to approve the low bidder, DiMaggo Electric for $13,500 to install security equipment at Cliff Cave, Grand Glaize, Jamestown Bluffs and Thornhill branches. DiMaggo approved.
		Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Dr Chingling Tai.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
		Action: C. Web Filter Upgrade
		Gib Van Cleve, ITS Manager, reported that the Library  needs to upgrade its Barracuda Web Filter to a model capable of handling the increased Internet traffic being experienced. The Library is being credited 50% for the trade in of the old filter towards the cost of the new unit.
		Upgrade barracuda web filter for $20,950.
		Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Elena G Kenyon.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
		Action: D. Tax Levy Request
		Mr. Pace presented a Tax Levy motion. The average home ($150,000) would see an increase of $17.10 for Library service.
		"Motion to approve proceeding with a request for a ballot proposition incorporating an increase in the current library tax levy in the amount of six cents per hundred dollars of valuation."
		Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Dr Chingling Tai.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith
	 Adjournment
		Action: A. Adjourn the meeting.
		Ended at 4:03 p.m.
		Motion to adjourn the meeting.
		Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Elena G Kenyon.
		Final Resolution: Motion Carries
		Aye: Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith