{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "8YRJXB4F4649",
  "date": "2012-10-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2012
	3:30 P.M.
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, October 15, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Members present:
	Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	ADMINISTRATOR'S AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
	Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Asst. Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Asst. Director, Adult and Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Marie Conlin, Planner; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Lisa Stump, Counsel, Lashly & Baer; Paul Zemitzsch, Sequel; and Julie Leicht, St. Louis County Government.
	Others Attending:
	Kris Mooney, Mary Arnhart, Ed Clark, Amy Hanaway, Lori Boschert, Roz Kohen, Keir Haug, Josh Richardson, Kathy Muller, Anne Arthur, Rachel Nowell, Stacy Berger, Trudy Williams, Aaron Eller, Marsha Ramey, Emily Althoff, Tracy Fletcher, Conrad Rader, Donna Spaulding, Kathy Condon-Boettcher, Laura Kasak, Jenny Via, Erin Magner, Nicole Clawson, Kimberly Clark, Christina Pryor, Stephanie Nordmann, Julia Mangner, Michael Cohen, Eric Button, Paul Bayless, Jennifer Jung, Cynthia Schultz, Anna Huckeby, Edith Isele, Erin Chapman, Paula White and Sandra Williams.
	Approval of Minutes
	The Board approved the September 17, 2012 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	Public Comment
	There was no public comment.
	Treasurer's Report
	Kristen Sorth reported that the Foundation made two contributions to the Library totaling $50,000.  Kristen reported on several expenses including RFID tags, pre-paid fax cards and Library cards.
	The parking lots were sealed and striped at 4 branches.  Personal computers for system wide replacement were purchased as well as the Kace Software Appliance for computer management.
	The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
	Director's Report
	Mr. Pace said he has received telephone calls both for and against the Nov. 6 ballot issue.  Customers also expressed their pleasure with the Ed2Go course offerings.  September circulation is up nearly 14%.  We are also experiencing record visits.
	In-service day was October 8th with approximately 450 staff in attendance.
	Bridgeton Trails roofing should be starting soon, while Indian Trails roofing project is underway. Skylights at TH are being replaced. Installation of the sound system at NB should be completed soon. OB has a new teen center that was dedicated October 12.
	Mr. Pace introduced the temporary Finance Manager, Kris Mooney. He also asked the employee of the year, Paula White of Building Systems to stand. Dr. Beckwith and the Board congratulated her.
	Jim Bogart said the LaRussa project was successful and he will get the amount raised to Edith Cunnane.  Tony LaRussa's visit lasted till midnight.
	Barbara Brain, Asst. Director of Adult and Support Services, gave a report about the Community Garden project at the Prairie Commons (PC) location.  She said it is another way to connect the Library with the community.  PC was chosen because it has a large plot of land that gets good sun. We did some advertising and 35 people came to the first meeting. We have since selected planning leaders. We will have 20 beds to start with. It's very exciting for the Library and those participating. She said the Library expects to have it installed by next spring.
	Barbara Brain says there is a series of small business programs currently being offered to the public. We kicked off this program last month. We have 65 and 60 signed up for the next two sessions, respectively. We marketed through news releases for the program and it was promoted at small business expos. All programs will be held at HQ.
	Kristen Sorth reported on her responsibilities as Assistant Director of Administration. Mary Arnhart, Matt Lakin, Darryl Wallace, Kris Mooney and Ed Clark report directly to her and were introduced at the Board meeting.
	New Business
	Snow Removal
	The Board approved the recommendation to hire Total Lot for snow removal (Cunnane/Tai).The size of their staff, equipment, number of trucks and references show that they are capable of providing the service required to remove ice and snow at 18 Library branches. In addition, Total Lot does not subcontract any of their work.
	 Thornhill Plaza
	The Board approved the administrations recommendation for the lowest and best bid, Rhodey Construction to replace the plaza at Thornhill at a cost of $38,880 (Sachs/Kenyon).
	Library Board Policy IV Real Property Policy
	The Board approved the administration's recommendation to revise the Real Property policy as recommended and written by the attorneys at Lashly & Baer (Tai/Sachs).
	457 Plan/Deferred Compensation
	The Administration is recommending that we pursue several options to boost participation.  The first option is to contract with one company to provide this service with lower fees and less penalties for our employees.  This would make the process less confusing and would offer not only a better benefit but better customer service.  A second option would be to change this benefit from opt-in to opt-out.  In other words, employees would be automatically enrolled in the plan based on a percentage of their salary and would have to opt-out if they do not wish to participate.
	Adjourn
	Mrs. Cunnane moved that the meeting adjourn. Mrs. Kenyon seconded.  All approved by voice vote. The meeting ended at 4:28 p.m.
	Respectfully Submitted,
	___________________________                                                                ___________________
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                                                   Date