{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Headquarters1640 S. Lindbergh BlvdSt. Louis, MO 63131Auditorium3:00 p.m.",
  "unique": "8WRTW67879C8",
  "date": "2012-08-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
​MONDAY, AUGUST 20, 2012
3 P.M.
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held via telephone conference on Monday, August 20, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE
Members present
Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President (via telephone)
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Chingling Tai, Secretary
Steve Sachs, Member
ADMINISTRATOR’S AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Charles Pace, Director;Kristen Sorth, Asst. Director, Administration; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Marie Conlin, Library Planner;  Lisa Stump, Counsel, Lashly & Baer; and Julie Leicht, St. Louis County Government.
 SLCL Staff attending:
Edith Isele, Trudy Williams, Kate Gerblick, Roz Kohen, Christina Pryor, Anna Schurk, Keir Haug, Kathy Wiese, Laura Kasak, Nicole Clawson, Parkie Peck, Denise Keller, Larry Kornfeld, Jennifer Jung, Kathy Muller, Kimberly Clark, Anna Strackeljahn, Paul Bayless, Natalia Catlett, Anne Arthur, Conrad Rader, Lynn Grimshaw, Robbin Oehler, Ellen Meschke, Connie Dee,  Gina Becker, Aaron Eller, Ed Clark, Kathy Condon-Boettcher, Erin Chapman, Rachel Nowell, Cynthia Schultz, Alaina Culbertson, Matt Lakin, Donna Spaulding, Jenny Via, Mary Arnhart, Paul Zemitzsch, Marsha Ramey and Sandra Williams.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes from June 25, 2012 and July 16, 2012 were approved(Cunnane/Tai).
Public Comments
Mr. Thomas Conroy addressed the Board regarding the meeting room policy. He is requesting that the Board allow individuals outside of the "not for profit" category to utilize the rooms. Dr. Beckwith said that an answer regarding his request will be given at a later time.
Reports
Treasurer's Report
Kristen Sorth reported that the Medical insurance had been paid two months in June. The building roof repair money from the recent storm was received for NB. The treasurer's report shows May off duty officer expenses.Google was paid the 2nd year payment of a 3 year contract for gmail and google.
A payment was received for Bridgeton Trails hail damage. Summer Reading Club (SRC) additional prizes were purchased. We received a ten thousand dollar grant for the baby club.  Administration recommends that the Board approve the Treasurer's Report as presented. For July, we are highlighting pre-paid expenses for insurance as well as databases and periodicals.  Auditors asked us to change how we report these expenses. The Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Tai/Kenyon).
Director's Report
Customer service issues
Mr. Pace reported that the summer months are always the busiest time of year for us at the Library and 2012 was no exception. We received many favorable comments from our patrons about the quality of the prizes that were given out as part of the Summer Reading Program and about how the program helped their children read more than they otherwise would have. Our final total for Summer Reading  Programs (SRP) registrations was 50,795; an increase of more than 30% over last year and an all-time record for us. We attribute this growth to increased outreach and marketing efforts as well as to the improved quality of the program prizes. As is often the case the biggest source of customer complaints is the temperature in our buildings. The situation was particularly difficult at our Tesson Ferry Branch as the aging HVAC system struggled to keep up with the extreme heat. We have purchased spot coolers for the facility which have provided some relief but it just points out the issues inherent in dealing with an aging physical plant.
June and July of 2012 constituted the busiest two month period in the history of the St. Louis County Library. Each month approached 1.4 million items circulated. We also had well over 600,000 visits to our facilities in both of these months. Our projections are that we will exceed 14 million items circulated by the end of the year and our number of visits should be close to 6.5 million. Both of these figures would be all time records for the Library. Using 2011 statistics and looking at our peer libraries (those that serve populations between 500,000 and one million) we currently are 9th in the number of both visits and items circulated and I expect we will move up several spots when next year’s statistics are released. The Library currently ranks 1st in our peer group in the number of hits on our website and in programming attendance.
Major Library events
Mr. Pace also reported that celebrated novelist Jodi Picoult and her daughter Samantha Van Leer presented their first book for teen readers on June 29 and a crowd of more than 300 people braved the heat to come see their favorite authors.
Ridley Pearson’s “The Risk Agent" heralds the start of a brilliant new series.
The St. Louis writer visited the Library on July 2 and drew an enthusiastic audience of about 200.
Chris Cleave visited the library to discuss his "Gold" novel on July 14 and he confided to Mr. Pace that St. Louis was one of his favorite stops and that the Read St. Louis award he received last year is a source of inspiration to him. An audience of about 125 people was on hand to hear him talk about his latest work.
The always delightful Eoin Colfer was here on July 25.We were the final stop on his North American tour and when he was interviewed by “Publisher’s Weekly” following the end of the tour, he expressed that the emotion in the St Louis audience as his absolute favorite moment of the whole trip. Our own Carrie Robb was also quoted in this article. More than 350 people were in attendance for this exciting program
.
Community Activities/Branch Visits
Mr. Pace said that summer was packed with various meetings and speaking engagements related to the tax campaign. Some of the organizations he has met with include the following: Oasis, Ready Readers, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and the American Legion. He also made formal presentations to Civic Progress, the Regional Business Council, and the Republican Central Committee, among others. He has upcoming meetings scheduled with the Clayton School Board and City of Clayton Board of Alderman, Fenton Chamber of Commerce, Clayton Chamber of Commerce, Afton Chamber of Commerce, and the 24 in 1 group in Normandy. I’m sure there will be many others added in the coming weeks. Paul Zemitzch will be at the Board meeting to update you on other campaign activities. I have also visited the Oak Bend, Meramec Valley, and Tesson Ferry branches during the past few weeks.
Facilities
The PA system at Headquarters is now fully in use and operational. We are also in the final stages of changing out the last of the door locks at Headquarters which should complete this massive project. The new Universal Power Supply (UPS) is scheduled to be installed in ITS on August 11. We are currently wrapping up a few other minor projects but things are largely status quo at this point.
Holiday Closing Schedule/In Service Day
The 2013 holiday closing schedule is attached to the director's report. Staff in service day will take place on October 8 this year. The library will be closed to the public for staff training.
Upcoming Library Events
Mr. Pace announced that Historian Candice Millard, "Destiny of the Republic: A Tale of Madness, Medicine, and the Murder of a President" would visit on Thursday, September 6, 7:00 p.m. - Library Headquarters-Auditorium
He also announced that Journalist and Historian Tony Horwitz, "Midnight Rising: John Brown and the Raid that Sparked the Civil War" would be held Wednesday, September 12, 7:00 p.m. - Library Headquarters-Auditorium.
Mr. Pace announced that Read St. Louis presents Teddy Wayne, "Kapitoil" 2012 Fiction: New Voice Selection on Friday, September 21, 7:00 p.m. - Library Headquarters-Auditorium
Library Gala
Mr. Pace also reported that the Administration requests approval to close Headquarters at 1 pm on September 22 in order to prepare for the 3rd Annual Library Gala. This is the same closing time that has been used the past two years. The Board approved the closing(Cunnane/Sachs).
 Unfinished Business
Campaign Update by Paul Zemitzsch
Paul Zemitzsch gave a report on the progress of the campaign.
 New Business
Cornerstone/Smart Shield
The Library needs to upgrade a key piece of software used to safeguard the District’s PCs. Cornerstone is installed on 750 of our 1000 PCs. When a PC becomes infected with a virus or is
tampered with by a customer, we simply restart the computer and the Cornerstone software restores the PC to its original configuration. Cornerstone assures that all public and circulation desk PCs are up and running for the start of business. This saves the ITS department countless hours of trouble shooting and PC support time. We plan to start migrating PCs to Windows 7 in September this year but our current version of Cornerstone will not work with Windows 7. Centurion Technologies (the makers of Cornerstone) have a new product called Smart Shield that
works with Windows 7. We can upgrade our 750 licenses to Smart Shield for $15,225 which will include one year of support. This purchase would be made through Centurion Technologies’
distributor, Lazerware. Lazerware is the sole source of Smart Shield for the greater St. Louis.  Staff recommended the purchase of Smart Shield for the cost of $15,225 which will allow us to move forward with our Windows 7 migration. The Board approved the purchase of Smart Shield at a cost of $15,225(Cunnane/Tai).
System Management Appliance
The St. Louis County Library has over 1000 PCs deployed across the District. The ITS department needs to improve its efficiency in supporting and deploying these systems. We currently apply software updates manually as well as manually configure these PCs for deployment. We have one person in ITS dedicated to this mundane task. Microsoft releases Windows updates on a monthly cycle, but it takes us three months to apply these patches to all of the District’s PCs. By acquiring and deploying a system management appliance we can achieve the following objectives. Gain the ability to remotely install software on a PC without needing to physically interact with the system. (This would reduce our Microsoft update cycle from three months to two weeks.) Improve disaster recovery response time for cases of hard disk failure or complete system replacement. In addition, the appliance will allow SLCL to: better enforce library policies; provide a faster response to maintenance and security issues; and provide improved inventory and reporting on PC hardware and software assets. Staff recommended the purchase of the KACE System Management Appliance and three years of support from ISG for the price of $64,812.  The Board approved the purchase of the KACE System Management Appliance and three years of support from ISG for the price of $64,812(Sachs/Kenyon).
Tax Hearing
*This Hearing Will Begin at 3:30 p.m. The Library Board will resume the Regular Meeting following the Hearing
The Board approved convening the tax hearing to allow patrons an opportunity to speak (Cunnane/Kenyon). No patrons address the Board.
The Board meeting was reconvened.
Parking Lots
Parking lot projects for 2012 include sealing and striping at ten Library locations including Headquarters, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Prairie Commons, Rock Road, Sachs and Tesson Ferry. Contractors were asked to bid on all locations. We
received quotes from the following three companies. Asphalt Restoration and Construction, Inc. - $48,505; Asphaltic Maintenance and Construction, Inc. - $58,483;Spencer Contracting Company - $93,250.
Library staff recommended accepting the low bid from Asphalt Restoration at $48,505. The budget for the parking lot projects is $75,000. The Board approved the low bid from Asphalt Restoration at $48,505(Cunnane/Tai). The budget for the parking lot projects is $75,000.
 Library Board Meeting Dates for 2013
The Library Board approves meeting dates for the subsequent year each August so that
meeting rooms can be reserved. The January meeting is scheduled the week after the Martin Luther King
Remembrance. The March meeting is scheduled for the second Monday in the month.
January 28
February- no meeting
March 11
April 15 @ Oak Bend
May 20
June 17
July 15 @ Weber Road
August 19
September 16
October 21 @ Natural Bridge
November 18
December 16
All meetings will start at 3:30 PM. The Tax Hearing is usually held in August.
The Pension Board is scheduled to meet right before the March, May, August and November meetings.
The Administrative staff recommends approval of the 2013 Board meeting dates and locations as presented.The Board approved the dates(Sachs/Cunnane).
Library Board Organization
The Board approved the following slate of officers.
President Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Jr.(Cunnane/Kenyon)
Vice- President Edith Cunnane(Tai/Sachs)
Secretary Dr. Chingling Tai(Kenyon/Cunnane)
Treasurer Elena Garcia Kenyon(Sachs/Tai)
Member Steve Sachs
Officers of the Board will serve for the next twelve months.
 Library Board Policy 1 Bid Procedures (Other than Professional Services)
Revisions to the procedures are as follows:
*The addition of current legal language and compliance throughout the document.
* To expressly provide that the Director or Director’s designee is granted the authority to purchase as
well as the ability to waive the procedures in certain situations as defined in the document.
* The Library District will prepare and incorporate into its bid and request for proposal solicitations
any conditions for M/WBE participation.
* The Library District shall give preference to all firms, corporations, or individuals doing business as
Missouri firms, corporations, or which maintain Missouri offices or places of business, when the
quality of performance promised is equal or better and the price quoted is the same or less.
* The Library District shall encourage the use of union labor in construction bid specifications
whenever it finds a legitimate and rational basis for doing so in the contract at issue.
The staff discussed also discussed a range of percentages for including minority participation.
The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board approve the revisions to the bid procedures as submitted by the Library Board’s attorney, Lashly & Baer.The Board approved the recommendation the aforementioned revisions to the bid procedures be adopted as submitted by the Library Board’s attorney, Lashly & Baer (Tai/Cunnane).
Adjournment
Adjourn the meeting
A motion was made to adjourn the meeting at 4:02 (Cunnane/Tai). All approved with a voice vote.