{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Rock Road Branch10267 St. Charles Rock RoadSt. Louis, MO 63074Auditorium3:30 p.m.",
  "unique": "8T8PSA65C581",
  "date": "2012-06-25T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	​ROCK ROAD BRANCH
	​MONDAY, JUNE 25, 2012
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Rock Road Branch, 10267 St. Charles Rock Road, St. Louis, MO 63074 on Monday, June 25, 2012.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library district at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	ATTENDANCE
	​Board Members Present:
	Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President via telephone
	Dr Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	Elena Kenyon had an excused absence.
	Administrators and Guests Attending:
	Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Admin.; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Manager, ITS; Eric Button, Community Services Administrator; Marie Conlin, Planner, Julie Leicht, St. Louis County Government; Lisa Stump, Counsel, Lashly & Baer, and Cathy Quinn, Daniel & Henry Co.
	Others attending:  Denise Keller, Mary Arnhart, Kathy Muller, Amy Hanaway, Edith Isele, Barbara Brain, Laura Kasak, Conrad Rader, Stacy Berger, Kate Grantham, Julia Mangner, Anna Huckelby, Aaron Eller, Steve Hibbler and Sandra Williams.
		APPROVAL OF MINUTES
		The Board approved the minutes of May 21, 2012 (Cunnane/Tai).
		PUBLIC COMMENTS
			There were no public comments.
			TREASURER'S REPORT
			Kristen Sorth reported that the Library had received TIF (tax increment financing) payments from Watson Plaza, Eureka and City Place developments.
			The Library received payments from the municipal libraries in Brentwood, Ferguson, Maplewood and Rock Hill in accordance with our municipal borrowing agreement.
			​Insurance proceeds were received for replacement of the roof at Natural Bridge due to hail damage.
			 Reading Clubs spent additional funds due to the increase in participation in our summer reading clubs. We are at record numbers.
			The Board approved the Treasurers Report subject to audit (Sachs/Tai).
			DIRECTOR'S REPORT
			Mr. Pace reported that the Library is currently investigating a rash of video game thefts at the Bridgeton Trails Branch.  Some young men have been identified and a banning letter was distributed to all branch managers. Also at the Rock Road Branch an individual was found with a magazine clip and led police to a gun. This points to the value of the off duty police officers that work at certain branches.
			Library usage continues to increase at a record pace.  For the first time we have exceeded one million for circulation in May. Mr. Pace reported that there are a number of  upcoming programs.
			He also reported that he had met with the Superintendent of the Clayton School District. They have  agreed to meet in the fall to discuss their interest in pursuing the location of a St. Louis County Library on their property.
			Mr. Pace said he recently visited with a number of  people concerning the upcoming fall election. The co-chairs are Linda Goldstein and David Stewart for the campaign.
			Mr. Pace said he visited Rock Road, Prairie Commons and the Thornhill branches.
			Mr. Pace reported that awnings have been ordered for Eureka due to the strong sun. Also a new door frame for Meramec Valley has been ordered.
			​Grants
			An award of $6,500 from the Boeing Employee's community Fund for the Paul Messner puppets and a $33,750 grant  for thermal people counters through LSTA have been received.
			Best Workplace Award
			We were recognized as one of the best work places in St. Louis. The Foundation Board took out an ad to thank the employees for their work efforts.
			Library Events
			Jodi Picoult and Samantha Van Leer will be our guests on June 29th.
			Mr. Pace said that the July Board meeting does not have any action items.  Due to the short time period between the June and July Board meetings, administration requested that the Board not meet again until August.  The Board approved that request (Cunnane/Tai).
			Rock Road Branch Manager Kathy Muller gave a detail overview of the Rock Road history. The branch was rebuilt in 1990 after a destructive tornado. She said there are many residents struggling with computer skills. There are a number of programs being offered to children.  The branch serves four elementary schools in the Ritenour and Pattonville School districts.   They host an annual blood drive and book sale which are very popular.
			The branch raised money for the victims of the tornado disaster in the area last spring. The staff developed a display for the undefeated Ritenour football team.
			Currently the staff is working to get GED classes in the branch. Many Spanish speaking families visit the branch. There are approximately 13,020 people in the community. Sadly,only 35% have a high school or GED. The biggest challenge is encouraging teens to stay in school and teaching computer skills. The branch staff would like Spanish speaking families to feel comfortable in the branch.
		UNFINISHED BUSINESS
		​NONE
		NEW BUSINESS
			ELECTION RESOLUTION
			The Administration has worked with the Library's bond counsel, Gilmore Bell, to create the attached resolution calling for an election in the St. Louis County Library District on Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2012.  The ballot language is included in the resolution.
			The  Library Board approved the resolution for the election to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 2012 (Sachs/Cunnane).
			THORNHILL ROOF
			Ed Clark explained that the skylights were leaking at the Thornhill Branch. They have exceeded their expected 25 year life.After reviewing several options, a decision was made to remove the skylights and not replace them.  The rest of the roof is in good condition and skylights have been an issue in many of our branches because they leak.  For this project, the roof deck will be replaced and new roofing material will cover the area where the skylights were located.
			The  Library Board approved the lowest and best bid, J.E. Novack Construction at a cost of $59,700. (Cunnane/Tai).   J.E. Novack has been in business since 1952.
			 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - HEALTH INSURANCE
			All benefits renew on Aug. 1. Initially Coventry's renewal was 14.7%.  Renewal from Coventry negotiated to an increase of 6%.
			The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry  recommended that we remain with Coventry. Daniel and Henry has reported that the average health insurance renewal this year is trending 10% – 12%. The 6% renewal from Coventry is below trend and under budget as the budgeted amount for the health insurance renewal was 12.5%.  The Board approved the Coventry recommendation (Tai/Cunnane).
			EMPLOYEE BENEFITS- DENTAL INSURANCE
			The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry recommended that we remain with Delta Dental. The budgeted amount for this increase was 10%. Delta Dental  agreed to a 2% increase in employee and dependent rates.   The employee rate will increase from $32.31 per month to $32.96. The Board approved the recommendation (Sachs/Tai).
			 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - LIFE AND VISION INSURANCE
			The Library received the renewals for employee life insurance and optional vision insurance.
			For the Life Insurance there will be a 0% increase for basic life, accidental death and dismemberment and long-term disability insurance through Reliance Standard.    There were no changes to the voluntary life insurance rates.
			​The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry is recommending that we remain with Reliance Standard for life, AD&D , long-term disability, and voluntary life insurance.  The budgeted amount was 6%.
			For Vision the Library received a 0% renewal from VSP, the Library's vision insurance provider. This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library.
			The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry recommended that we remain with VSP for the Library’s optional vision insurance and with Reliance Standard for life insurance.  The Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
			EMPLOYEE BENEFITS -PART TIME BENEFITS
			The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry is recommending that we remain with SRC/Aetna as the insurance carrier for part time employee benefits. This benefit is strictly voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library. If an employee chooses to participate, they are responsible for the monthly premium for the insurance.  The Board approved the recommendation (Sachs/Tai).
			COMPOSITION OF PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES
			Josh Richardson with McMahan and Berger presented information on the Pension Board. There is a recommended change from 5 members with 2 Library employees elected to 5 members with one elected.  The change makes the Assistant Director of Administration a permanent position on the Pension Board.
			The Pension Board of Trustees recommends that the Library Board authorize legal counsel for the Plan to draft an amendment to the Plan to reduce the number of participant-elected trustees to one (1) and make the Assistant Director of Administration a permanent trustee position.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Tai/ Sachs).
			 PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES APPOINTMENT
			The Administration recommended that the Library Board appoint Steve Sachs to serve on the Pension Board of Trustees.  The Library Board approved the appointment (Cunnane/Tai).
			ADJOURN THE MEETING
			Mrs. Cunnane motioned to adjourn the meeting and Dr. Tai seconded.  All approved by voice vote.  The meeting ended at 4:20 p.m. meeting ended.