{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LSNB73580A",
  "date": "2013-03-11T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013
		3:30 p.m.
		The monthly meeting of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, March 11, 2013.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Members present:
		Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President (via telephone)
		Elena G. Kenyon, Treasurer
		Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
		Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branches; Marie Conlin, Planning;  Dave Gannon and Gwen Knight, Colliers; Michelle Bock, Piper Jaffray; Rich Gratza, KEB; Gina Cochran, KEB; Michael Zwiener, Milliman; Bill Winningham, Milliman; and Bill Lowery, Lowery Associates.
		Others attending:  Marsha Ramey, Mary Arnhart, Kris Mooney, Anne Arthur, Roz Kohen, Erin Chapman, Jennifer McBride, Nicole Clawson, Julia Mangner, Donna Spaulding, Rachel Nowell, Jennifer Jung, Paul Bayless, Connie Dee, Ed Clark, Joyce Loving, Michael Cohen, Lori Boschert, Natalia Catlett, Sarah Wood, Aaron Eller, Edith Isele, Laura Kasak, Colleen Hall, Anna Strackeljahn, Darryl Wallace, Kathy Wiese, Emily Althoff, Gina Becker, Lisa Haddox, Erin Magner, Chris Pryor, Stacy Berger, Amy Hanaway, Kimberly Clark, Conrad Rader, Tracy Fletcher, Scott Holl, Jennifer Alexander, Kathy Muller and Sandra Williams.
		Approval of Minutes
		The Board approved the minutes dated January 17, 2013 and January 28, 2013 (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Public Comment
		There were no public comments.
		Treasurer's Report
		The Treasurer's report was given by Kristen Sorth.
		Ms. Sorth reported that the Library has received $30,196,573 in tax revenue for the 2013 calendar year.  This equates to 86% of total current year tax revenue budgeted.   The Library received $154,813 in Financial Institution Tax Revenue for January.   The Tax Revenue received is based on the profitability of Financial Institutions in the prior year.
		The Library purchased a 2013 Dodge SXT Van for $23,000 to be used for the Pre-School Outreach Program. The Library hired an employee to help with the outreach program.  This was approved by the Library Board at a precious Board meeting.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sachs/Kenyon)
		Director's Report
		Mr. Pace reported that this past month he dealt with a few customer service issues. One individual complained about noise levels at a couple of the Library branches. He listened to the customer's concerns and directed Eric Button to talk to the managers of the branches in question to see what could be done to mitigate the amount of noise in those facilities. Another customer complained about the planned new buildings. Mr. Pace said he understood her concerns but felt it would be a betrayal of what we had promised the voters if we did not go forward as planned. He also spoke with a customer who felt he had been unfairly treated. He explained our policy on materials that were returned damaged. Mr. Pace said the customer didn’t seem completely satisfied, but did thank him for taking the time to discuss the issue with him.
		In terms of library usage, the Library is off to a strong start. Circulation for January increased by 10.6% compared to January of 2012. E-media circulation increased by more than 50% over the same period and by more than 15% compared to the previous month. The Library recorded more than 500,000 visits in January, up about 5% when compared to the same time period last year. The most popular books for check out were “Gone Girl” by Gillian Flynn and Janet Evanovich’s “Notorious Nineteen”.
		Major Library Events
		Community Activities/Branch Visits
		Mr. Pace visited the Daniel Boone, Lewis and Clark, and Jamestown Bluffs branches to congratulate the staff on their success in the 14 in 12 initiative and to share lunch with them. He said he was impressed to see what a dedicated and hard working group of employees we have.
		On February 7 and 8, Mr. Pace drove out to Indianapolis and visited their main library, operations center, and two of their branches. Areas of follow up from this visit include their approach to shared services agreements with local schools and the role of the Library Foundation.
		On March 1, he spoke to a high school engineering class at Kirkwood High School about the latest trends and developments in Library design. The students are currently working on a project that involves designing a new library in a pre-existing space.  Last week he conducted a webinar about the election process viewed by librarians across the country from more than 20 sites.
		Facilities
		· Some of the snow guards for Cliff Cave have arrived. As soon as we receive the rest of the shipment the Library will be looking to schedule a date for installation.
		· The new sign for Mid-County is in the process of being fabricated. Once it is installed, this will complete our rebranding project for library exterior signage.
		· We hope to install the pathway for the community garden at Prairie Commons in the near future. Installation of the garden itself is scheduled for March 23.
		· The stall partitions at our Weber Road Branch were damaged by vandals. We are planning to replace them with a new material that will be more resistant to damage.
		· We are exploring options to deal with the cooling situation in our Call Center here at Headquarters; the temperatures are often uncomfortably warm.
		Master Plan Update
		· Due Diligence work is progressing to prepare for the bond sale.  We plan on bringing the documents to the Board for approval in April.
		· Recommendation on Real Estate Brokerage services will be presented later in the Board meeting.
		· Preliminary discussions have been held with Landmark to prepare for the issuance of RFQ’s for Architectural services.
		· The Landmark contract will be presented for approval later in the meeting.
		 Kristen discussed the process of due diligence, which consisted of a questionaire with legal issues including finance and personnel.
		Caroline Kennedy is coming April 3 and the Library is expecting a large crowd for that event.
		 Dr. Beckwith requested a breakdown of votes by precinct regarding the election. He would like it electronically.
		Old Business
		 457/Deferred Compensation Plan
		The Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan was last reprinted with amendments in 1999 but has not been revised since 1981. Josh Richardson from McMahon Berger has revised the plan to include major revisions to reflect current law and practices.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation to revise the 457/Deferred Compensation Plan ( Kenyon/Cunnane).
		New Business
		2012 Library Audits
		Rick Gratza from KGB audit addressed the Board. The Board reviewed the findings for year end 2012. Mr. Gratza said his firm, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel issued an unmodified opinion. It is the best of three opinions rendered.  There were no material weaknesses in internal control noted.
		The Board approved the Library Administration's recommendation to accept the independent audit (Sachs/Tai). Copies of the audit will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The audit will also be available on the Library’s website.  Kristen thanked Kris Mooney for all of his work on the audit.
		2013 Pension Contribution
		The pension contribution from the Library to the Pension Plan is due each year on March 31. The Library’s actuary, Milliman, has conducted the annual actuarial valuation. You may recall that the Pension Board and the Library Board authorized a change in the actuarial assumptions of the Plan per Milliman’s suggestion. These changes were taken into account when conducting the actuarial valuation.  The funding ratio of the Pension Plan is 87.27%.
		The Library Board approved the administration's recommendation to authorize a $1,571,499 contribution to the Pension Plan as recommended by the Library’s actuaries (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Real Estate Broker Services
		The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Colliers International to provide Real Estate Broker Services to the Library District. We have determined that Colliers International is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Colliers International: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed.
		Local clients include the Hazelwood School District, CORTEX and Post Holdings. Colliers International’s references also included Vincent Shoemehl, Jr., President and CEO of Grand Center, Inc., Mark Levin, City Administrator - Maryland Heights and Harry Mueller, Board Member and Real Estate Chair - Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago. All of their references were excellent. Charles Pace reported that due to the fact that the property needs to be purchased, we need a broker. An RFQ was sent but only two responded. We reissued and 8 responses were received.
		The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Colliers International to provide Real Estate Broker Services to the Library District (Tai/Cunnane).
		 Landmark Contract
		According to the Library’s Professional Services policy, negotiated Library contracts will be presented to the Library Board for approval. We have been working with the Library’s attorneys, Lisa Stumpe and Melissa Vighi, from Lashly Baer and representatives from Landmark on the attached contract.  Landmark was selected at the January Library Board Meeting to provide Facilities Master Plan Administration Services.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation that the Library Board accept the negotiated contract for Facilities Master Plan Administration Services with Landmark Contract Management, Inc. Mr. Pace and Kristen Sorth said they worked with the attorney to approve the contract. Dr. Beckwith inquired about minority participation in regard to library policy.  Landmark has hired Cheryl Walker of Nyamichi Enterprises as a subcontractor for minority representation. He said a report should be detailed so we will know what we are paying for. It should be itemized to the District's standards. Dr. Beckwith requested Landmark to make a good faith effort to meet every goal.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation of the negotiated contract for Facilities Master Plan Administration Services with Landmark Contract Management, Inc.   Steve Sachs, Edith Cunnane, Chingling Tai and Elena Kenyon voted yea.  Lynn Beckwith voted nay.  The motion passed.
		Bridgeton Trails Carpet
		The 2013 Library budget includes the replacement of the Bridgeton Trails carpet. The Library issued an invitation for bid on February 1, 2013. The bid opening took place on March 1, 2013. We received responses from the six companies.
		The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board accept the lowest bid from Image Flooring/Color Art in the amount of $65,436. The budgeted amount for this project was $75,000. The Library Board approved the request (Cunnane/Tai).
		Insurance Renewals
		All lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on April 1. Arthur J. Gallagher Risk Management Services (AJG), the Library’s broker for these services, has received and reviewed the insurance quotes from the Library’s incumbent insurance carriers. These include Firemen’s Fund (National Surety Corp.), Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Endurance American Specialty Insurance and Illinois Union Insurance. The other insurance companies that were contacted could not compete with the renewals from the current carriers.
		Attached please find a letter from Lance Carlson along with a chart of the April 1, 2013 renewal quotes. The total of the insurance renewals and the broker’s fee ($20,000) is $426,636. The Library’s 2013 budget for this expense is $465,000. The Pension Plan pays for the Fiduciary coverage ($7,287).
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation, in consultation with Arthur J. Gallagher, to accept the renewals from the Library’s current insurance carriers which include Firemen’s Fund (National Surety Corp.), Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Endurance American Specialty Insurance and Illinois Union Insurance plus the broker’s fee for a total cost of $426,636 (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Digital Annual Report
		Jennifer McBride, the Library’s Communications Manager, issued an RFQ (Request for Qualifications) to solicit proposals from qualified firms to produce a digital annual report for the Library. This was included in the 2013 Library budget. The RFQ was sent to six firms and posted on the Library’s website. Four agencies responded to the RFQ. A team consisting of Charles Pace, Barbara Turkington and Jennifer McBride independently reviewed and ranked the proposals based on the responses given to the proposal requirements. Once ranked, fee envelopes were opened. Based on the rankings, the following three firms were considered; Ad Savants, Brand Almanac and UPBrand.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to select Brand Almanac to provide digital annual report services to the Library District (Kenyon, Cunnane). Staff determined that Brand Almanac is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee. The cost is $18,000.  All of their references were excellent.
		Security Cameras
		The 2013 Library budget includes an upgrade and standardization of security cameras and digital video recorders (DVRs). Analog recorders will be replaced with a digital system and indoor/outdoor cameras will also be replaced at eleven branches (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, HQ, Indian Trails, Lewis and Clark, Meramec Valley, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Rock Road, Sachs and Weber Road.)
		In addition, security cameras will be added at Tesson Ferry due to several recent customer issues. The Library issued an invitation for bid for Panasonic cameras and recorders on February 14, 2013. The bid opening took place on March 1, 2013. We received responses from the following five companies:  Dynamic Controls, Inc., Securix, LLC., Hackett Security, Inc., Tech and Will Electronics.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation of Dynamic Controls, Inc. in the amount of $131,396.14. The budgeted amount for this project was $135,000 (Sachs/Cunnane).
		Fund Balance Policy
		The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approved the revised Unassigned Fund Balance Policy. If approved, the minimum amount of the unassigned fund balance must be between 15% and 20% of the following year’s budgeted operational expenses with a target of 17.5%. In addition, we are recommending that we no longer transfer funds in excess of 20% to the capital improvements fund. The capital improvements fund, as currently defined, will be removed from the budget during the budget revision which will take place in April or May after the Certificates of Participation are issued. The money currently in the capital improvements fund will collapse into the unassigned fund. The revenue generated from Prop L will be deposited into the general operations fund for the Library. The proceeds from the sale of the Certificates of Participation will be deposited into their own fund to be accounted for separately. A Declaration of Trust will be established for these funds. BOKF, the trustee, will manage this account for both the debt service as well as distribution of the funds for projects.
		The Library Board approved the revised Unassigned Fund Balance Policy (Kenyon/Sachs).
		Shared Services Agreement
		The Shared Services Agreement was prepared as part of the process of requesting a change in the tax status of the Foundation by the IRS. It is an annual agreement describing the Library’s support of the Foundation. The agreement was presented and approved by the Foundation Board in June of 2012.  However, due to an oversight, it was not presented to the Library Board for approval in July, 2012. The current agreement technically expired on July 31, 2012. The Library Foundation recommends approval of the annual Shared Services Agreement.
		The Library Board approved the Shared Services Agreement (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Meeting Room Policy
		The Library’s meeting rooms offer groups and organizations the opportunity to hold their meetings in a convenient location at low cost. The policy governing use of the rooms has gone through a number of revisions over the years but has always specified that groups using our meeting space must be not-for-profit. We are proposing eliminating that stipulation and allowing businesses to use the meeting rooms as long as no active selling and no solicitation occurs.
		Over the past few years, managers have been encouraged to join community organizations including Chambers of Commerce and our Mind Your Business small business series of workshops has been very well received. Since businesses are part of the community we serve and the Library is actively seeking new ways to serve that community, we felt it was time to propose this change in the policy. We also feel that businesses are more likely to seek meeting space during the day and that this change would not negatively impact most not-for-profit groups. Other minor changes to the policy include a statement about the frequency of meetings and the ability of groups to serve light refreshments.
		Legal counsel has reviewed the draft policy.  Mrs. Kenyon stated her concern that groups should be told to clean up after themselves.
		The Library Board approved the change in the Meeting Room Policy (Cunnane/Tai).
		Adjournment
		Mrs. Kenyon made a motion to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Sachs seconded.  All voted to adjourn by voice consent.  Meeting ended at 4:45 pm.
		Respectfully submitted,
		__________________________
		Chingling Tai                                                                          Date