{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LT4P74F69F",
  "date": "2013-09-16T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, September 16, 2013 at 3:30 p.m.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Library Board Members:
	      Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
	      Edith Cunnane, Vice President via telephone
	      Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
	      Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	      Steve Sachs, Member
	Administrators and Guests Attending:
	Kristen Sorth, Interim Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Gwen Knight, Colliers; Todd Hornburg, Landmark; and Joe Meyers, Lochton.
	Others attending:
	Anna Schurk, Darryl Wallace, Kathy Wiese, Anna Huckeby, Lori Boschert, Amy Hanaway, Michael Cohen, Nicole Clawson, Gina Becker, Jennifer McBride, Scott Holl, Marsha Ramey, Roz Kohen, Trudy Williams, Christina Pryor, Natalia Catlett, Parkie Peck, Keir Haug, Sarah Wood, Emily Althoff, Ed Clark, Donna Spaulding, Laura Kasak, Julie Mangner, Alaina Culbertson, Erin Magner, Conrad Rader, Aaron Eller, Jennifer Alexander, Cynthia Schultz, Paul Bayless, Wendy Livingston, Kimberly Clark, Dorothy Wobbe, Erin Chapman, Anna Strackeljahn, Kathy Muller, Tracy Fletcher, Joyce Loving, Kris Mooney, Julie Cruise, Rachel Nowell, Jennifer Jung, Lisa Haddox, Anne Arthur, Mary Arnhart, Colleen Hall and Sandra Williams.
	Approval of Minutes
	The Board approved the minutes from the August 19, 2013 meeting (Kenyon/Sachs).
	Public Comment
	There were no public comments.
	Treasurer's Report
	Finance Manager Kris Mooney reported that we received $17,752.83 in insurance proceeds from the damaged canopy at the Weber Road Branch.
	Salary expenses in August totaled $2,110,853, due to three pay periods for the month.  The Library also paid the annual broker fee of $12,500 plus $2,000 to our Employee Benefits Broker, Daniel and Henry for the development and analysis of a wellness initiative survey. The final installment for the HVAC controls replacement at Sachs Branch in the amount of $60,478 was paid in August.  The total cost was $110,478 and was approved by the Board in January.
	The snow guards at the Cliff Cave Branch were replaced at a cost of $23,851.  The Board approved the Treasurer’s report subject to audit (Tai/Cunnane).
	Interim Director's Report
	Kristen Sorth reported that a vehicle backed into the Sachs Branch within several hours prior to the start of the Library Board meeting. The Fire Department is requiring a structural engineer to ensure the building is sound before declaring it is safe for business.
	Facilities Master Plan Update
	Scott Kolath, the Library’s project manager from Landmark, will be working several days a week at HQ as the projects progress. Ms. Sorth attended and presented at the St. Louis County Planning Commission meeting on Monday, August 19, 2013 regarding the future site for Tesson Ferry. She also attended and presented at the Fenton Planning Commission Meeting on September 3, 2013 regarding the future site for Meramec Valley. The Library is in the inspection period for both properties. Appraisals, environmental, traffic, engineering and utility studies, among other due diligence activities, are underway. The Fenton Planning and Zoning Commission will make a recommendation to the Fenton Board of Alderman to approve our zoning petition amendment on September 26, 2013. The next step will be approval of a preliminary site plan at the November 6th public hearing in Fenton. The inspection period for the Fenton site ends on October 30th.
	Members of the Administration, Facilities, branches and Landmark continue to meet with the architects to begin architectural programming of the facilities for Lewis and Clark, Meramec Valley, Tesson Ferry, Indian Trails and Rock Road.
	Regarding Lewis and Clark, the Administration is working with Landmark and the architects at KAI on programming the new building. It is our plan to build a new and bigger branch that will better meet the needs of the patrons as well as the community. We plan to save the stained glass windows and incorporate them into the new building in a prominent location.
	Interviews for a Construction Manager were conducted on August 22, 2013. The Library Board will review the Administration’s recommendation for a Construction Manager later in this meeting.
	Library Update
	 The after-school program at the Rock Road Branch began on September 9, 2013. We had 15 students participate. Three volunteer tutors, as well as Rock Road staff, worked with the students.
	 The Library’s E-Rate funding in the amount of $305,410.97 for 2014 was approved on August 21, 2013.  Through this federal program administered by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), schools and libraries can receive discounted telecommunications services.
	 In response to a steady stream of requests from customers, we have ordered St. Louis County Library tote bags which feature our white logo on a blue bag. The bags will sell for $1.00 each and will offer excellent advertising and visibility as they are used in the community. Our shipment of bags will not arrive until late in 2013.
	 Winter Reading Club will be offered to people of all ages from November 1-January 31. Children who read five hours and adults and teens who read four books will be entered into drawings for prizes. We are working with several potential sponsors. In 2012 nearly 25,000 babies, kids and teens participated in the Winter Reading Club. This number is projected to grow significantly in 2013-2014, the second year for the program.
	 Rock Road Branch continues to experience very high PC usage, which often results in a waiting list. In response to that need, six additional PCs were added at Rock Road, increasing the total number of public PCs in the branch from 27 to 33. Since the addition of these PCs, wait times have been dramatically decreased.
	 Effective September 1, 2013, anyone applying for a library card must present a photo ID and
	documentation with the applicant's name and current address. This change was made in an effort to prevent fraud and theft of library materials.
	 Tickets to the Rick Riordan event sold out in three days with online sales selling out the first day they were offered.
	 Ms. Sorth visited the Meramec Valley and Lewis and Clark branches this month.
	 She also toured the Webster Groves Public Library and met with their director, Tom Cooper.
	  The second organizational meeting for the Cliff Cave Community Garden was held on August 24, 2013. Twenty-three people attended and seven volunteered to serve on the planning committee.
	 With the completion of Windows 7 upgrades, we are now able to offer customers color printing instead of only black and white. Customers will also be able to print from their Wi-Fi connected personal computing devices using the new Mobile Print application in early October.
	 Kristen Sorth attended the Foundation Board Meeting on September 10, 2013.
	 Members of the Administration as well as Board Members Dr. Tai and Elena Kenyon attended the 26th Annual Salute to Excellence in Education presented by the St. Louis American Foundation. Dr. Beckwith was honored with the St. Louis American’s Lifetime Educator Achievement Award at its dinner on September 13, 2013 at America’s Center. She congratulated Dr. Beckwith on his achievement.
	Library Employee Update
	 Flu shots will be available for Library staff at four branches in October.
	 The 2014 Holiday schedule is attached.
	 Branch managers and assistant branch managers, as well as the Manager and Assistant Manager of Circulation at HQ, will be swapping locations during the week of September 23. Managers will observe services, programs, and procedures and talk with their counterparts. They will then trade places and go to the other location on the second day. The manager swaps have occurred for several years and it has proven to be an effective method of sharing ideas and information, which leads to improvements in library service.
	Library Facility Update
	 The sealing and striping of the parking lots at six locations is complete. The branches include Cliff Cave, Eureka Hills, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Thornhill and Weber Road.
	 The parking lot replacement at Bridgeton Trails is complete and the lot at Prairie Commons will be finished by the end of this week.
	 A pipe behind the wall in the staff room at Mid-County cracked causing significant damage. The repairs have already been made to the staff room.
	 The lights around the circulation desk at HQ have been installed.
	Author Events
	Ms. Sorth announced that there are several notable author events coming up in the fall.
	 A. Scott Berg, Pulitzer prize-winning author, will be here on October 21, 2013 to discuss his new book “Wilson.”
	 Bestselling author Sara Paretsky will be here on October 29, 2013 to present her new book “Critical Mass.”
	 Amy Tan will be here on November 16, 2013 to present her first novel in 10 years, “The Valley of Amazement.”
	Old Business
	None
	New Business
	Support Services Presentation
	Kathy Wiese, Acquisitions & Collection Development Manager, gave a PowerPoint presentation on the work in her department and also in Cataloging and Processing. She reported that the three Collection Development Specialists determine what to purchase by reading professional journals and researching online review sources.  They also process approximately 300 requests from customers per week. This year, the Library spent an average of $24,000 every day to acquire new books and other physical materials for our customers.  Acquisitions staff receives between 24 and 130 boxes every day, each weighing 30 to 50 pounds each.  Once received, the catalogers create bibliographic records for each title.  Catalogers create an average of 3,360 records per month, or about 150 titles per day.  The Processing staff then attaches the physical labels and creates item records which allow the materials to be checked out.  We add an average of 31,000 items per month. The three departments work very closely together to ensure that popular materials are available to the public by street date.
	Gala Update
	Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director of Advancement, gave an update on the upcoming fourth annual Foundation Gala.  She said it would be held on Saturday, September 21 in the main reading room of Headquarters. The Gatsby-themed event will feature jazz singer Denise Thimes during the reception and author Lisa Scottoline is the featured speaker.  The event is sold out.  The Library will close at 1 p.m. to set up for the event. This year, a silent and live auction will be held. Reception begins at 6 p.m. and the event ends at 9:30 p.m.
	2014 Tax Rates
	Kris Mooney reported to the Board we received the post Board of Equalization rules right before the Board meeting.  He distributed a hand-out reflecting actual assessed values compared to the values shown during the Tax Hearing.
	The Library Board approved the adjustments for the proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property be assessed as the 2013 tax rates. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our customers and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance in April, 2013  (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	The rates are as follows:
	Real Estate
	            Residential  -$0.250
	            Agricultural -$0.2790
	            Commercial -$0.2640
	Personal Property    -$0.2250
	Budget Revision
	Kris Mooney reported that the Budget Committee has reviewed the 2013 budget. Revenue will decrease by about $330,000 and expenditures will decrease by about 460,000. Account changes were explained within the budget revision narrative.
	The Library Board approved the Budget Committee’s recommendation for approval of the 2013 Revised Budget (Sachs/Tai).
	Investments
	At the August Meeting, the Library Board approved investments for proceeds from the sale of
	Certificates of Participation which will be used for Phase I construction and other capital
	improvements. As the Library District began to purchase those investments, it was brought to
	our attention that one of the banks selected only bid on a portion of four available maturities and
	not the entire amount. After consulting with Lashly & Baer, the Library District was advised
	that the purchase of the lower investments amounts from Pulaski Bank was acceptable since the
	Board had approved the rate. However, we had to re-bid the remaining dollars of those
	maturities if we wished to invest the funds. The total amount re-bid was $18,000,000 divided
	into 4 maturities. The Administration is recommending First Bank, who proposed the
	highest annual percentage yield for all maturities. The Library Board approved the recommendation for First Bank (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	2014 Structure Adjustment and Merit Raises
	Mary Arnhart and Kristen Sorth worked with Lockton Employee Benefit Specialists on the employee merit raise process. A structural adjustment is also recommended.
	The recommended increase to the structure adjustment averages out to be 2.3%. The structure adjustment only affects employees that are new to the Library or new to their position. These individuals are not eligible for a merit raise. Lockton conducted an analysis and identified 67 employees that will receive a structure adjustment.
	Kristen Sorth reported that the Library uses a performance management system where individual raises are tied directly to the level of performance for each employee. Through this process, managers can make real distinctions between levels of performance and reward employees accordingly.  Only employees that have worked for the Library for one year or more are eligible for merit raises.
	The Administration is recommending that the Library Board approve the salary adjustment based on the analysis conducted by Lockton. These adjustments will cost $519,381 for a 0 – 4.5% merit raise range with a 2.81% average.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
	Construction Management Services
	The Library Administration requested the submission of proposals from qualified firms to provide Construction Management Services. Lashly & Baer and Landmark assisted with the drafting of the Request for Proposal (RFP). The company selected will provide construction management services for Phase One of the Facilities Master Plan. Detailed information is included on the attached Scope of Services.
	The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select SM Wilson to provide Construction Management Services for Phase One of the Facilities Master Plan. The Library has determined that SM Wilson is the most qualified firm with fair and reasonable fees based on evaluation factors as required by Missouri State Statutes.  A discussion was held.
	The following fees were agreed upon by SM Wilson:
	Fixed Fees for Personnel: $1,709,734
	Non Personnel Fixed Fees: $192,601
	Total: $1,902,335
	We determined that these fees are fair and reasonable.
	Negotiations as to certain terms of the Agreement continue with SM Wilson; however, these terms do not change the fees listed. The Administration recommends the Library Board approve the selection of SM Wilson to provide Construction Management Services and authorize the Interim Director to negotiate the final provisions of and enter into an Agreement consistent with the terms presented at this meeting, subject to additional changes as approved by the Administration with the advice of Library legal counsel.
	The Library Board approved the recommendation (Beckwith/Cunnane).  Mr. Sachs abstained.
	Facilities Master Plan - PR Services
	The Library Administration requested the submission of qualifications from qualified firms to provide Public Relations Services for the work related to the Facilities Master Plan.
	The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select Centrex Strategies LLC to provide public relations services to the Library District. Local clients include St. Louis Public Library, the St. Louis Zoo, the Missouri History Museum, Saint Louis Art Museum and Metro Transit/Bi-State Development Agency. The Library has determined Centrex Strategies is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Centrex Strategies: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
	Smart Money Manager
	ITS Manager, Gib Van Cleve, reported to the Board on the need for additional software licenses for Smart Money Manager, the “point of sale” cashier system currently in use in ten branches.
	Staff recommended the purchase of 23 Smart Money Manager software licenses and cash drawers from Comprise Technologies, Inc. for the cost of $22,014. This expense is included in the 2013 Library budget and was budgeted at $35,000. Comprise Technologies, Inc. is a single-source provider of the Smart Money Manager software.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sachs/Kenyon).
	Executive Session
	Mrs. Cunnane made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); legal matters (Section 610.021(1)); and personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)). Mr. Sachs seconded.
	The Library Board voted to go into executive session by individual voice vote.
	Adjourn
	Regular Meeting ended at 4:55 p.m.
	Respectfully submitted,
	____________________________                                        _______________________
	Chingling Tai                                                                          Date
	Secretary