{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LSST73F16E",
  "date": "2013-05-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, MAY 20, 2013
		3:30 p.m.
		The monthly meeting of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, May 20, 2013.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Members present
		Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		Elena G Kenyon, Treasurer
		Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branches; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Gwen Knight, Colliers and Fred Hoehn, resident, City of Green Park.
		Staff and Guests Attending:  Trudy Williams, Ellen Meschke, Anna Strackeljahn, Jennifer McBride, Conrad Rader, Mary Arnhart, Gina Becker, Anne Arthur, Steve Hibbler, Edith Isele, Nicole Clawson, Emily Althoff, Gib Van Cleve, Lori Boschert, Paul Bayless, Sarah Wood, Ed Clark, Dottie Wobbe, Erin Chapman, Kris Mooney, Alaina Culbertson, Keir Haug, Jennifer Alexander, Stacy Berger, Marie Conlin, Tracy Fletcher, Kimberly Clark, Kathy Wiese, Eric Button, Aaron Eller, Lisa Haddox, Scott Holl, Lynn Grimshaw, Stephanie Nordmann, Natalia Catlett, Laura Kasak, Erin Magner, Donna Spaulding, Marsha Ramey, Darryl Wallace, Michael Cohen, Christina Pryor, Parkie Peck, Roz Kohen, Cynthia Schultz, Matt Lakin, and Rachel Nowell and Sandra Williams.
		Minutes
		The Library Board approved the minutes dated April 15, 2013 (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Public Comment
		Mr. Fred Hoehn, a Library customer, spoke to the Library Board regarding the Tesson Ferry Branch relocation.  He asked the Board to consider Clydesdale Park.   He stated that it would save money, and help St. Louis County’s park budget.  Mr. Hoehn also said that Green Park has very little cultural value in the city or the surrounding area.  He said that St. Louis County Library meets this need.  A letter stating this information was presented along with an area map of the Tesson Ferry vicinity.  Dr. Beckwith said that a response would be given in the near future.
		Treasurer's Report
		Kristen Sorth reported that in March the Library had a decrease of $338,828 in Real Estate tax revenue for the 2005 and 2006 tax years.  The County reached a settlement with a company called Property Assessment Review, who represented over 700 landowners disputing their assessed values.  The entire settlement was for over $10 million. There is currently a budget variance of $4.148 million due to tax revenue held by the County due to landowner protests of their assessed value.  This budget gap should close significantly in May.
		The Library received the 3rd and 4th quarter payments for funding year 2013 from the State of Missouri totaling $214,787 (The State's fiscal year begins in July.)
		The Library made the annual contribution to the Pension Plan in the amount of $1,571,499.  This was the amount previously authorized by the Board.
		The Summer Reading Club has begun and the April payment for $131,863 for prizes, brochures, and posters supporting the program.
		In April the Library paid $375,421 in fees to St. Louis County for work performed in preparing Proposition L to appear on the November ballot.  In April, the County refunded the Library $34,984 for a temporary staff overcharge.
		The Library Board approved renewing all lines of insurance at the March Board Meeting, as recommended by the Library's insurance broker, Arthur J. Gallagher Risk Management Services.  All policies were renewed in April including workers compensation insurance.  There was a 8.4% increase totaling $305,915 in 2013.
		The Library paid $31,311 in for snow removal services for March 24 and 25.
		The Treasurer's Report was approved subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
		Director's Report
		Mr. Pace reported that Food for Fines was another big success this year. The Library collected more than 30,000 pounds of canned goods for area food pantries.  It was down slightly from last year but still a huge amount. Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, and Tesson Ferry were the top branches in terms of the amount of food collected.
		In reviewing the informal comments from April, we received several remarks comparing the St. Louis County Library favorably to systems as far away as Illinois and Kansas. We also had a number of comments requesting both color print capabilities and wireless printing. Our IT staff is working on solutions to make both of those possible in the near future. Circulation for April showed an increase of nearly 9%, thanks to our new policy of asking customers if they want their materials renewed; renewals were up by some 26% compared to April of 2012. We are on track to exceed 15 million items circulated in 2013, another all time record for the system.
		Stephanie Nordmann explained the role of Library Elf in helping to renew books.
		Major Library events
		The Library hosted Teen Science Fiction and Fantasy Night on Tuesday, April 30, at 7:00 p.m. in Headquarters-Auditorium.  This was part of the Reading Garden Event Series.
		It featured Antony John, Lenore Applehans, Tamara Ireland Stone, and Lauren Oliver.
		The St. Louis County Library Foundation presented The Eighth Annual Suspense Night,
		An Evening of Thrills and Chills.  This event took place Friday, May 10 at 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Main Reading Room.  This evening featured five outstanding mystery and suspense writers who each read from recent work and discussed their craft including Michael Koryta, Ace Atkins, Reed Farrel Colman, Megan Abbott, and Hank Phillippi Ryan.  Almost 200 excited fans attended this event.
		Community Activities/Branch Visits
		Mr. Pace reported that he visited the Prairie Commons, Florissant Valley, and Bridgeton Trails Branches during the past month. He spoke with the managers at all three locations, toured the new Community Garden at Prairie Commons and learned more about the particular issues and concerns facing the staff at each location.
		On May 9 and 10, He attended the Library Journal Design Institute in Seattle at the request of Library Journal so that he could see how the event was run. St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library are going to co-host a Design Institute here in either November or December. The Design Institute brings in architects from across the region and across the country to talk about the latest trends in library design and construction. Mr. Pace said hosting such an event will be good for both libraries and for the St. Louis region.
		Facilities
		Mr. Pace said the Building Systems department is working on the following.
		1.     We are working with Overhead Door to set up an inspection schedule for all of our automatic doors to make sure they are functioning   properly.
		2.     Bridgeton Trails carpet replacement is in progress.
		3.  There is no start date for the snow guards for Cliff Cave Branch. The contractor is behind due      to the rain.
		4.     We have roof leaks at Grand Glaize, Eureka Hills, and Daniel Boone.   Seilfleisch Roofing is investigating.
		5.     Roof leaks at Cliff Cave and Grand Glaize have been submitted to the insurance company.
		6.     Contractors will start working on the hole at GG which is located back in the staff area when they have some clear weather for a few days.
		7.     The new countertops for Sachs’ bathrooms are ready to be installed.
		8.     Loyet is putting together a complete report on possible landscaping options for some or our branches that have a number of dead plants.
		9.     The HVAC control installation at Sachs is underway and progressing well.
		Master Plan Update
		·         The bond sale closed on April 30 as planned.   We now have $58 million in the care of our trustee, the Bank of Kansas City. These are the funds that will be used to pay for the phase one projects identified in the facilities master plan.
		·         Examination of possible sites for our Tesson Ferry and Meramec Valley buildings is underway; recommendations for land purchase will be presented at a future board meeting.
		·         Recommendations for architectural services will be presented to the Board later in the meeting.
		Upcoming Library Events
		Mr. Pace announced that Richard Paul Evans, author of "A Step of Faith" will be featured
		Tuesday, May 21, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.
		Books for signing will be available for purchase from Left Bank Books.
		He also said that The St. Louis County Library Foundation's 'Buzz' Westfall Favorite Author Series presents Pulitzer Prize-Winning Journalist Steve Coll Author of "Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power" on Monday, June 3, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  Books for signing will be available for purchase from Left Bank Books.
		He announced that Craig Johnson, author of  “A Serpent's Tooth" would  be featured Friday, June 14, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  Books for signing will be available for purchase from Barnes & Noble.
		New Business
		Zoo Museum District Letter of Engagement
		Dr. Beckwith premised the discussion regarding the Zoo Museum District Letter of Engagement by saying all questions would focus on the letter, the payment process and attitude of staff towards the project. Mr. Pace explained that he received an engagement letter from Paul Zemitzsch.   Mr. Pace said he previously had the discussion with Mr. Zemitzsch about the project earlier in the year.  This was to be a cross partnership with the MO Botanical Garden.  Mr. Zemitzsch revised the contract to include the Missouri Botanical Garden, the History Museum and St. Louis Zoo.
		Dr. Beckwith asked specific questions regarding how Mr. Zemitzsch was paid and when.  Mr. Pace said $4,000 was paid in advance.
		According to Mr. Pace, the two-page document is the full contract. A copy of the contract was signed and given to the business office.  Mr. Pace said he approved the document and it was presented for payment the day he received the letter.
		Dr. Beckwith asked if the project was something our own staff could handle.  Mr. Pace said the Library doesn’t have a marketing staff.   Dr. Beckwith stated that in light of the history museum, zoo and other institutions appearing in the paper for mismanagement of funds, did he consider this when making his decision.  Mr. Pace said some of the staff members disagreed with the project.   He said the staff said that it could be done internally and he disagreed.
		Mr. Pace stated that he understood emails would come from our Friends program at the Library and we would exchange names from their program.  Barbara Turkington clarified the process and said a third party mail house would handle the address list and the Library would never actually have emails or addresses in its possession.
		Dr. Beckwith said the $8,000 was not broken down according to services rendered. There is no cost per hour or breakdown of data.  He said a further discussion of the matter would be done in closed session.
		Architect Selection
		Kristen Sorth reported on the selection of architects for the upcoming building projects. There were 31 respondents to the RFQ. Mr. Sachs requested more information on the buildings and the fees per sq foot. Kristen Sorth gave an estimate of the cost per square foot.
		The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the selection of the
		following three local firms to provide architectural and engineering services for the corresponding projects: (Kenyon/Tai).
		Christner – Tesson Ferry (new construction)
		KAI – Lewis and Clark and Meramec Valley (new construction)
		TR,i – Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Rock Road (renovations)
		In accordance with State Statute, fees were requested after the selection process. Negotiations commenced following the review of the fees by the above three firms.
		The following fees were agreed upon by Christner, KAI and TR,i:
		Christner - Tesson Ferry
		$960,000 plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $38,000
		KAI - Lewis and Clark and Meramec Valley
		$513,531 for Lewis and Clark plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $30,000
		$385,050 for Meramec Valley plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $43,000
		TR,i - Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Rock Road
		$58,500 for Indian Trails plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $8400
		$58,500 for Jamestown Bluffs plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $8400
		$153,000 for Rock Road plus a not to exceed reimbursable amount of $15,000
		Parking Lots
		Ed Clark and Kristen Sorth explained the specifications for the sealing and striping of branch parking lots.  Parking lot projects for 2013 include sealing and striping at seven Library locations including Cliff Cave, Eureka Hills, Lewis and Clark, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Thornhill, and Weber Road. Contractors were asked to bid on all locations.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to accept the bid from Spencer Contracting Company at $43,017 (Cunnane/Tai). The budget for the parking lot projects is $60,000.
		Express Lane Self Check
		Gib Van Cleve briefed the Board about self check and the system we used. We want to retire the old Bibliotheca system and standardize with Express Lane. The maintenance agreements on the Bibliotheca machines have expired.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to purchase an Express Lane enterprise license from Innovative Interfaces for the cost of $32,000 which will allow the Library to standardize on a single self check solution and retire aging equipment from the District (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Adjourn
		The Library Board approved the motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss personnel (610.021) (3) and (13) (Cunnane/Tai).  All approved by voice vote.
		Dr. Tai motioned to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss personnel (610.021) (3) and (13). Mrs. Kenyon seconded and all approved by voice vote.
		The meeting ended at 4:25 p.m.
		Respectfully submitted,
		____________________                                                        _________________
		Dr. Chingling Tai,                                                                   Date
		Secretary