{
  "name": "Regular Meeting At Headquarters Branch",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LSPG737E37",
  "date": "2013-04-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2013
	3:30 p.m.
	The monthly meeting of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, April 15, 2013.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Members present:
	Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President (via telephone)
	Elena G. Kenyon, Treasurer
	Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
	Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branches; Michelle Bock, Piper Jaffray; Michael Boserter, ABNA; Eric Cowan, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch; Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, Joshua Richardson, McMahan Berger and Jonathan Boesch, St. Louis County Government.
	Staff and Guests attending:  Robbin Oehler, Jennifer Jung, Gina Becker, Michael Cohen, Kathy Muller, Debbie Podgorski, Anna Huckeby, Erin Chapman,  Alaina Culbertson, Conrad Rader, Colleen Hall, Kathy Wiese, Marsha Ramey, Mary Arnhart, Rachel Nowell, Julie Mangner, Cindy Schultz, Nicole Clawson, Christina Pryor, Sarah Wood, Edith Isele, Lori Boschert, Matt Lakin, Cindy Miller, Paul Bayless, Anne Arthur, Kris Mooney, Erin Magner, Natalia Catlett, Emily Althoff, Parkie Peck, Kimberly Clark, Tracy Fletcher, Stacy Berger, Stephanie Nordmann, Anna Strackeljahn, Aaron Eller, Anna Schurk, Laura Kasak, Dorothy Wobbe, Donna Spaulding, Jennifer Alexander and Sandra Williams.
	Minutes
	The Library Board approved the minutes dated March 11, 2013 as presented (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	Public Comment
	There were no comments from the Public.
	Treasurer's Report
	In February
	Kristen Sorth reported that the Library received a Missouri State Grant for $3,844 for Summer Reading Club materials. Various online databases were renewed in February at a  cost of $412,624.    Millenium software was renewed for $124,503. The Black History Celebration Committee spent $6,294 on various programs.  Symantic software was renewed at a cost of $14,591 and Encore Subscriptions were $21,772.
	In March
	There were three pay periods in March.  Salaries totaled $2,024,168.
	The first installment for the annual report  was made at a cost of $11,775.
	Snow removal and the salting of parking lots cost $18,205 in February.
	The annual renewal for RFID support and maintenance was $54,557.
	The Library Board approved the February 2013 and March 2013 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sachs/Tai).
	Director's Report
	Customer service issues
	Mr. Pace reported that the last month has been fairly quiet in terms of customer service issues. A rotation of security officers was started at the Tesson Ferry Branch due to the surge in incidents there lately. So far, he said it was going well and he hopes that the officers can prevent future altercations from taking place or defuse them if they do. He said there were a number of positive comments about our programs and services on the March informal comments report.
	Mr. Pace said circulation of library materials continues to increase. We were up 4% in the month of February in spite of having a snow day and the fact that the month was one day shorter since last year was a leap year. During the month of March, our circulation of library materials increased by more than 9%. Ebooks are up by more than 50% year-to-date. Physical visits to the library are down slightly compared to last year. Part of this may be due to the very cold and snowy weather we experienced in February and March but we are still on pace to have over six million visitors by the end of the year. Going forward, we would expect our circulation to level out and even decline slightly as our services will be disrupted due to various construction and renovation projects. Mr. Pace cautioned that over the next few years circulation figures will not be comparable to previous year’s totals due to these factors.
	Major Library events
	The Library featured C.J. Box, author of "Breaking Point" Monday, March 18, 7:00 p.m.in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  Suspense author C.J. Box presented the latest installment in his popular series about Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett. Mr. Pace said he estimated about 200 people came to hear him speak.
	2013 Family Read Night presented Caroline Kennedy, "Poems to Learn By Heart" sponsored by Delta Dental on Wednesday, April 3, at 7:00 p.m. in the main reading room of Library Headquarters. In this diverse collection, a companion to her #1 best-seller "A Family of Poems," Caroline Kennedy has chosen more than a hundred poems that speak to all of us: the young and young at heart, readers new to poetry and devoted fans.  More than 1,000 people crowded into the main reading room for Ms. Kennedy’s presentation and there was a tremendous amount of enthusiasm for the event.
	On Friday, April 5, at 7:00 p.m., the Library featured Blaine Harden, "Escape from Camp 14: One Man's Remarkable Odyssey from North Korea to Freedom in the West". This was presented by the 'Buzz' Westfall Favorite Author Series.    Acclaimed journalist Blaine Harden presented the unbelievable story of the only known person born in a North Korean labor camp to have escaped and survived.  Mr. Harden’s presentation was particularly timely due to the current crisis in the Korean peninsula. The auditorium was filled to capacity and there were a number of questions from the audience about current events in Korea.
	On Saturday, April 6, at 7:00 p.m. in the auditorium, Ridley Pearson presented, "Kingdom Keepers VI: Dark Passage". The Young Readers Event presented this Reading Garden Event Series. This is the fifth installment in the author's bestselling Kingdom Keepers series about teenage protectors of Disneyland. Mr. Pearson is always a popular hometown favorite.  We estimate about 200 people attended this program.
	Community Activities/Branch Visits
	During the time period covered by this report, Mr. Pace visited the Mid-County, Rock Road, and Prairie Commons Branches to meet with various staff members and to discuss upcoming projects. As a result of a meeting at Rock Road, the Library is going to try a pilot project at that location to provide homework assistance to area school children between the hours of 3 and 5 pm. I will report to the Board in the future on the progress of this pilot program.
	On March 21, Mr. Pace spoke to the South County Kiwanis Club about the various programs and services of the Library. He also participated in his first Library Journal Advisory Board meeting via conference call. It was interesting to hear how other libraries around the country are having the same kinds of issues and trying similar solutions to what we are attempting.
	On April 3, Mr. Pace toured the Purser Center at Logan Chiropractic College to get an idea about what kind of event space and facilities we might need in the future. He attended a Directors of Large Libraries (DOLL) meeting in Columbia, Missouri on April 12.
	Mr. Pace said the following Facilities projects are taking place.
	· Snow guard installation at Cliff Cave is expected to get under way later in April.
	· We are hoping to start new carpet installation at Bridgeton Trails during the month of May.
	· The Library has been denied insurance reimbursement for possible hail damage on the roof at the Jamestown Bluffs Branch. We are looking to get bids for repair of the parking lot at the Grand Glaize Branch.
	· We are working on plans to install new HVAC controls at our Florissant Valley and Samuel Sachs Branches.
	Master Plan Update
	· He said the Board will be asked to approve a number of documents related to the bond sale later in the meeting. Assuming Board approval, we anticipate closing on the sale by the end of April at which time we will have the money to get started.
	· The Colliers contract for Real Estate Brokerage services will be presented later in the Board meeting.
	· The RFQ for Architectural and Engineering Services is currently live. We have advertised in the paper and sent it directly to a number of firms, including those on the State’s list of minority and women owned businesses. The deadline for responses is April 22. We plan on bringing recommendations for Architectural services to the May Board meeting.
	Zinio
	After thorough investigation and due to a number of patron requests, we have decided to add an electronic magazine subscription service called Zinio to our electronic resources. People who wish to use Zinio can sign up for the magazine subscriptions they are interested in and when a new issue is released it will show up on their electronic device. In the future this may be a way to provide access to lesser used titles that we don’t want to subscribe to in hard copy format. It is also the case that more and more publications are going to an electronic only format and are no longer printing traditional magazines. We see this product as a significant enhancement to our resources and customer service.
	Upcoming Library Events
	Mr. Pace announced the following upcoming programs:
	Teen Science Fiction and Fantasy Night featuring Antony John, Lenore Applehans, Tamara Ireland Stone, and Lauren Oliver will take place Tuesday, April 30, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium
	Presented by the Reading Garden Event Series.  Books for signing will be available for purchase from Left Bank Books.
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation Presents the Eighth Annual Suspense Night:  An Evening of Thrills and Chills.  The program is featuring Michael Koryta, Ace Atkins, Reed Farrel Coleman, Megan Abbott, and Hank Phillippi Ryan will take place Friday, May 10, at 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Main Reading Room.  This event brings together top writers from across the country.  Books for signing will be available for purchase from Barnes & Noble.
	Library Director Goal
	Per his goals from the Board, Mr. Pace included the Quarterly Summary Minority Percentage Chart.  The Board approved the Director's report (Cunnane/Kenyon).
	Old Business
	457 Plan
	The Library Board approved the recommendation of Administration to make policy changes to the 457/Deferred Compensation plan to be effective for new employees on June 1, 2013. The changes include allowing only full time employees to participate, automatic enrollment, and a 2% deduction from an employee’s bi-weekly salary (Kenyon/Sachs).
	New Business
	Landmark Presentation
	Brad Hornberg, CEO of Landmark, gave a presentation to the Board regarding the services that Landmark would provide the Library.  Those services include:
	Master Plan refinement
	Assist with the Library District’s financing team
	Develop scope, budget, schedule and priorities for each facility
	Assist Library District with contracting  necessary professionals, vendors & contractors
	Guidance on site evaluation
	Management of the Library District’s construction team
	General administration of the Master Plan
	Support in meeting the goals identified in the Library District’s Diversity Statement
	Verification of billings, draw requests and disbursements
	Coordination of changes in conditions, scope, financing and construction
	Evaluation of insurance requirements
	Management and coordination of FF&E (furniture, fixtures and equipment)
	Supervision of the completion of construction and post-closeout matters
	Monthly progress reports and meeting attendance
	Incidental assistance as directed by the Library District
	Services also include a construction management plan and an inclusion strategy.
	He was followed by a presentation from Cheryl Walker, CEO of Nyamichi Enterprises.
	The entire project will have Two Phases. The first phase will cost approximately $58 million.
	The Board has approved 15% participation for minorities and 5% for women.
	The Board has requested advertising in the Hispanic and Asian newspapers along with the St. Louis American.  On May 17th the plan will be given to director; Dr. Beckwith said he prefers quarterly reports from Cheryl Walker.
	Diversity Report
	The Library Board has requested yearly information regarding the staff complement.  Kristen Sorth reported on the 2013 data. Ms. Sorth also reported that open positions are advertised in the St. Louis Post Dispatch and the St. Louis American. Positions are posted for seven days, then the most qualified applicants are sent to the hiring managers. Dr. Beckwith said he appreciated the efforts of the thorough report.
	Parameters Resolution - Certificates of Participation
	Michelle Boch from Piper Jaffray reported that the Library had received great ratings from Standard and Poors. The interest is 3.2 percent over 25 years.  Mark Gilmore of Gilmore and Bell gave a report on the investment resolution.  The Library Board approved the following resolution.
	A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY
	DISTRICT TO ENTER INTO A LEASE PURCHASE TRANSACTION, THE
	PROCEEDS OF WHICH WILL BE USED TO PAY THE COSTS OF A PROJECT
	FOR THE DISTRICT; AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF CERTAIN
	DOCUMENTS AND APPROVING CERTAIN ACTIONS IN CONNECTION
	THEREWITH (Cunnane/Tai).
	Tax-Exempt Financing Compliance Resolution - Certificates of Participation
	The Library Board approved the following resolution.
	RESOLUTION APPROVING A TAX-EXEMPT FINANCING
	COMPLIANCE POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR THE ST. LOUIS
	COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT (Tai/Kenyon).
	Contract for Colliers International
	Colliers International was selected at the March Library Board Meeting to provide Real Estate Brokerage Services.   The Library Board approved the Administration recommendation to accept the negotiated contract for Real Estate Brokerage Services with Colliers International (Sachs/Tai).
	Cliff Cave Community Garden
	In May 2012, we formed a partnership with Gateway Greening (a nonprofit organization that educates and empowers people to strengthen their communities through gardening and urban agriculture) to establish a community garden at one of our branch locations. We chose the Prairie Commons Branch for this project since it has a large, sunny, open space in a very visible location close to the parking lot entrance and within sight of Interstate 270. The Prairie Commons garden project is Gateway Greening’s first collaboration with a public library. Community response was enthusiastic and, after a number of planning meetings, approximately 60 community gardeners, corporate volunteers, library and Gateway Greening staff installed a 20- bed community garden at the branch on Saturday, March 23.
	Since the community’s response to the project has been so positive, we would like to establish a second garden at the Cliff Cave Branch in spring 2014. Cliff Cave’s manager had suggested his branch for this purpose, both he and the assistant manager are very enthusiastic about the possibility, and there is a suitable area on the south side of the building to install a garden.
	The Library Board approved staff moving forward with planning for a second St. Louis County Library/Gateway Greening community garden project at the Cliff Cave Branch (Sachs/Tai).
	Adjournment
	Mr. Sachs motioned to adjourn the regular meeting.  Dr. Tai seconded.
	The meeting ended at 4:58 p.m.