{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LT3774E2EF",
  "date": "2013-08-19T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2013
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, August 19, 2013 at 3:30 p.m.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Library Board Members:
		      Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		      Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		      Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		      Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		      Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Interim Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer;  Jon Boesch, St. Louis County Government, and Gloria Lloyd, Call Newspapers.
		Staff and Guests Attending:  Bobby Jones,  Gerald Welk, Stacy Berger, Emily Althoff, Edith Isele, Nicole Clawson, Donna Spaulding, Kris Mooney, Anna Schurk, Laura Kasak, Jennifer McBride, Keir Haug, Parkie Peck, Conrad Rader, Natalia Catlett, Darryl Wallace, Steve Hibbler, Amy Hanaway, Aaron Eller, Jennifer Jung, Sarah Wood, Mary Arnhart, Julie Manger, Kathy Wiese, Anna Strackeljahn, Marie Conlin, Paul J. Bayless, Connie Dee, Christina Pryor, Jon Boesch, Gib Van Cleve, Anne Arthur, Cheri Remington, Jennifer Alexander, Lori Boschert, Roz Kohen, Michael Cohen, Kimberly Clark, Erin Chapman, Colleen Hall, Gina Becker and Sandra Williams.
		Opening Remarks
	Tax Hearing
		Dr. Beckwith began the meeting by announcing the Tax Hearing. The Hearing began at 3:30 p.m. The Library Board will resume the Regular Meeting following the Hearing.
		Kristen Sorth read the proposed rates.  Dr. Beckwith asked if any citizens wanted to speak concerning the Tax Hearing.  No one responded.
		The tax rates shall be set to produce revenues which the budget for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2014, show to be required from the property tax. The property tax revenues are the gross property taxes for the current year, minus the cost of collection, cost of reassessment, uncollectible taxes
		and tax increment financing deduction.
		Tax Rate:
		Assessed Rates Prelim Proposed
		Rates                     2012         2013
		Real Estate
		Residential            .17300       .23300
		Agricultural            .20000      .26000
		Commercial          .19000      .26000
		Personal Property .15000       .21000
		The maximum amount of current year property tax revenue is estimated at $47,000,000.
		Final rates will be set by the Board at their September meeting.  The Library Board voted to close the Tax Hearing and adjourn the regular Board meeting. (Cunnane/Sachs).
	 Minutes
	The Library Board approved the minutes of July 29, 2013 as presented (Cunnane/Sachs).
	Public Comment
		Library customer John Hoeke distributed information regarding the site for the new Tesson Ferry Branch.  He recommended the Library investigate the possibility of purchasing  10 acres of land on Madis Road costing 2.5 million dollars.  Following his presentation Mr. Gerald Welk addressed the Board.  He was not happy with the site selected as a potential site for the new branch.  Dr. Beckwith thanked both for their comments and said a response would be sent to them in the coming weeks.
		Treasurer's Report
		Kris Mooney reported that the Library received $55,605.28 from the West County/Des Peres TIF District; In July, the Library District received the final amount of revenue for the 2012 reciprocal borrowing agreements wit area libraries.  all have paid in full.  total revenue received for 2013 was  $79,889.25.
		The Library purchased toner cartridges for all 22 new printers which were purchased in June for customer use, at a cost of $6,532.63.  the Library spent $26,650.36 in Reading Club expenses for July, of which, $8,652.20, was spent for prizes.
		Legal services comprised most of the $27,036.38 in expense for July.  The Library District paid Lashly & Baer for May and June services, $8,207.50, and McMahon/Berger for April and May services, $6,695.00.  Additionally, the Library paid McMahon/Berger $4,132.50 for their services related to review of the plan document for our new 457 Deferred Compensation provider, Moneta Group.
		The lighting was replaced in several locations around the circulation desk at Headquarters at a cost of $9,200.11  This was included i the 2013 Library budget.  Also, the Prairie commons branch had lighting repaired outside their front  entrance for $2,623.82.
		The Library paid $32,000.00 for an enterprise license for the express lane self check modules.  The enterprise license covers all self check stations located in all of the Library District's branches.  The Library Board approved this purchase at the May Library board Meeting.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Interim Director's Report
		Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
			Facilities Master Plan Update
			The zoning application for the future Tesson Ferry site will be discussed at the St. Louis County Planning Commission meeting on Monday, August 19, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. The zoning application for the future Meramec Valley site will be discussed at the Fenton Planning Commission Meeting on September 3, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. I will attend both meetings as will various Library representatives.
			Members of the Administration, Facilities, branches and Landmark met with the architects to begin architectural programming of the facilities for Lewis and Clark, Meramec Valley and Tesson Ferry. This is the research and decision-making process that defines the scope of work to be designed. Future meetings have been scheduled which will include visits to each location and feedback from Library staff. The contract with TR,i has been
			finalized for work on Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Rock Road. The Library Board will review that contract later in this meeting. Programming meetings for these projects will begin the first week of September.
			Interviews for a Construction Manager will take place on August 22, 2013. The Library Board will review the Administration’s recommendation for a Construction Manager at the September Library Board Meeting.
			Library Update
			 Rock Road will begin offering an after school program for students through partnerships with the Ritenour and Pattonville School Districts as well as Holy Trinity School beginning September 9, 2013.
			The after school program will be offered Monday –Thursday from 3:30-5:30 each week. Students who register for the program will partake in structured activities for enrichment and entertainment followed by mandatory homework and study time. The program is open to students 10-15 years of age.
			 Recycled Reads launches in September 2013 in approximately 60 sites throughout St. Louis County.  Recycled Reads sites will offer discarded library books or donated materials for borrowing. Sites include a wide range of locations, but generally they all share some key characteristics. The sites are
			placed where people congregate and where they likely have some waiting time. Typical sites include health care providers such as hospitals and urgent care centers, auto care facilities, community centers etc. Customers may read the Recycled Reads materials while they wait or they may choose to take it
			home and return it to a library or a Recycled Reads site. Most sites will include a mixture of adult and
			children's books as well as magazines.
			 The Reference Department is offering a new readers’ advisory service called Personalized Reading List for Adults. In an effort to help readers find materials that match their interest, they have developed an online form for customers to complete. Once the form is completed, a customized reading list is
			compiled and emailed to the customer within a week. Since its launch on August 5th, the Reference Department has received 55 forms.
			 As you know, the four branches with Sunday hours (HQ, DB, FV, and TF) were open on Sundays during the summer for the first time this year. In previous years, the Library did not offer Sunday hours at any of our locations. System Administration has collected statistics and both circulation and visits
			were impressive on Sundays during the summer. We are planning to be open at more locations on Sundays beginning in 2014 and will also continue to be open on Sundays at specific branches.
			 We engaged a telecommunications consulting company to review our billing and overall usage of phone lines for potential savings. They recommended changes that helped optimize our billing and telecommunication configuration which will result in a savings of $1619 per month or $19,432 a year.
			 The Digital Annual report is live. The print version is also available. We are very pleased with the final results and have received positive feedback.
			 The Library’s Foundation is partnering with Boys and Girls Club of Greater St. Louis to promote children’s literacy in our communities.
			 C-SPAN was at the Library on August 14, 2013 to film journalist Vanessa Gezari as she discussed her book “The Tender Soldier.” The book describes the military’s Human Terrain System which operates on the premise that soldiers need to understand the enemy and its culture and how it was implemented in
			Afghanistan.
			 I met with Waller McGuire, Director of St. Louis Public Library. We plan to meet regularly to discuss opportunities for collaboration between our two systems.
			Library Employee Update
			 Matt Lakin, Coordinator of Training and Darryl Wallace, Manager of Transportation and Security will conduct training for all Library Staff on issues related to workplace violence this fall.
			 The Staff In-Service Day will take place on Monday, October 14, 2013. All Library branches will be closed that day.
			Library Facility Update
			 We will be developing a sustainability plan to initiate and maintain sound environmental sustainability practices at the Library. Chauncey Felder, Coordinator of Custodial Service, will be leading this initiative.
			 Several maintenance employees will be attending Ranken Technical College to enhance their skills.
			 HVAC Controls will be installed at Jamestown Bluffs by September.
			 Security camera installations continue. In some branches, new wiring closets will be installed to accommodate the upgraded equipment.
			 Fall window cleaning will begin at all branches and HQ.
			 Trees damaged in the tornado at the Bridgeton Trails Branch will be removed this month.
			 The canopy at Weber Road was damaged twice by vehicles that were too tall to pass under it. The canopy will be removed this month.
			Author Events
			There are several notable author events coming up in the fall.
			 Children’s book author, Patricia Polacco, presents a companion book to her classic “The Keeping Quilt” on September 9, 2013 at 6:30 p.m.
			 Michael Chabon, Pulitzer prize-winning author of “The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay” will be here on September 18, 2013.
			 Wally Lamb, New York Times bestselling author of “The Hour I First Believed” will be here on November 4, 2013.
	 Old Business
	None
	New Business
	Presentation:  Summer Reading Club
		Eric Button reported on the Summer Reading Club (SRC) success. He thanked Youth Services staff members Nicole Clausen and Sarah Wood. Positive feedback was generated. Four distinct clubs, babies, kids, teens and adult. New strategy this year. Club began May 13th. Staff went to more than 300 public and private schools to sign up children. A grant from the State made commercials possible. The statistics are impressive and include 104,000 babies, kids and teens. We registered 53% of our population. More than 30% of those registered, completed the program.
		A slide presentation featuring various SRC programs was shown.
		Construction Update Discussion
		Kristen Sorth reported on the Phase 1 Cohen design.  She said the original 10 year plan was changed to a 6 year plan. We now know that this was ambitious. The lack of details in the plan has led to time consuming changes. The buildings that are being replaced are much easier to work on than the remodeled buildings. Only cosmetic changes were addressed. There were no HVAC, restroom or roofing considerations made in the strategic plan. ADA needs have to be addressed as well. Ms. Sorth reported that she met with Landmark and discussed what we need for the buildings including restrooms, staffing and children areas.
		Mid-County's needs may change.
		She said Headquarters will be last in receiving renovation because there are 300 staff members to consider.  It must be determined where they will be housed and where the books will be placed. We will start planning in Phase 1 for Phase 2.
		Michelle ____at Piper Jaffray, the libraries financial planner addressed the Board. Michelle discussed the debt service payment and how the library can work and pay at the same time. She also discussed how to spread the money in different areas.
		She said 85% of the money must be spent in three years for a tax exempt bond. You must document what money is left.  If it is not properly documented, the borrowed money could be restricted. If you earn more on the investment, you must reinvest or rebate. She reported that the Library has saved half a million on the 50 million borrowed. Some of the funds have been issued.
		Architect Contracts - TR,i
		Kristen reported that negotiating with TR,i  was a lengthy process.  The Rock Road Branch is a fairly expensive renovation. Scott Koleth from Landmark addressed the Board regarding the construction costs that exceeded the original estimation.   Rock Road currently is estimated to cost 1.9m.
		The Library Board approved the negotiated contracts for Phase One Architectural and Engineering Services with TR,i for Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Rock Road (Cunnane/Tai).
		Library Board Meeting Dates - 2014
		The Library Board approved the 2014 Board meeting dates and locations as presented (Sachs/Kenyon).  All meetings are scheduled for the Headquarters location.
		Library Board Organization
		Officers of the Board were elected to serve for the next twelve months.
		Dr. Lynn Beckwith was approved to serve as President (Cunnane/Tai).
		Edith Cunnane was approved to serve as Vice President (Sachs/Tai).
		Elena Kenyon was approved to serve at Treasurer (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Dr. Chingling Tai was approved to serve as Secretary (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Investments
		The Library Board approved the following banks with the highest annual percentage yield for each maturity (Kenyon/Cunnane).
		Associated Bank has the winning rate quotes for maturity dates of October 31, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, and June 30, 2014.
		Pulaski Bank has the winning rate quotes for maturity dates of September 30, 2014, December 31, 2014, March 31, 2015 and September 30, 2015.
		First Bank has the winning rate quote for the maturity date of June 30, 2015.
		Reliance Bank has the winning rate quote for the maturity date of December 31, 2015.
	Adjourn
		Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)).
		The Library Board approved the motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene an Executive Session to discuss personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)).  Motion by Edith Cunnane, second by Elena G Kenyon.  All approved by voice vote.
	Meeting adjourned at 4:43 p.m.
	Executive Session