{
  "name": "Regular Meeting at Headquarters",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LT5Z75110D",
  "date": "2013-10-21T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2013
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, October 21, 2013 at 3:30 p.m.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Library Board Members:
		      Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		      Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		      Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		      Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Interim Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Gwen Knight, Colliers; Giona Lloyd, Call Newspapers; Todd Scheibe, KPFF Consulting Engineers; Scott Koleth, Landmark; Todd Hornburg, Landmark; Jessica Perkins, Vector Communication Corp; and Mayor Bob Reinagel, Green Park.
		Others attending:
		Alaina Culbertson, Lisa Haddox, Erin Chapman, Barb Reale, Bobby Jones, Paul Bayless, Kathy Muller, Christine Pryor, Susie Bushnell, Kris Mooney, Jennifer Alexander, Bill Lowery, Trudy Williams, Darryl Wallace, Colleen Hall, Ken Kriegshauser, Rachel Nowell, Aaron Eller, Keir Haug, Anna Strackeljahn, Anna Schurk, Marsha Ramey, Steve Hibbler, Ed Clark, Sarah Wood, Stephanie Nordmann, Parkie Peck, Jennifer Jung, Anne Arthur, Stacy Berger, Donna Spaulding, Marie Conlin, Kathy Wiese, Nicole Clawson, Tracy Fletcher, Emily Althoff, Anna Huckeby, Julie Mangner, Scott Holl, Lori Boschert, Natalie Catlett, Jennifer McBride, Edith Isele, Conrad Rader, Erin Magner, Cindy A. Miller and Michael Cohen.
		Dr. Beckwith called the meeting to order.  He announced the excused absence of Mrs. Elena Kenyon due to the tragic news of her son suddenly passing away.  He called for a moment of silence in memory of Michael Alan Kenyon.
		The Library Board approved the minutes dated September 16, 2013 as presented (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Public Comment
		Mayor Bob Reinagel of Green Park addressed the Board regarding a resolution passed by the City of Green Park’s Board of Aldermen.  The resolution authorizes the City Administrator to work with the St. Louis County Library District to explore all options and ideas to facilitate retaining the Tesson Ferry Branch within the City of Green Park.  A copy of the resolution was left to be recorded with the minutes.
		Dr. Beckwith thanked Mayor Reinagel and told him a response would be sent to his attention at a later date.
		Treasurer's Report
		Finance manager Kris Mooney reported that $7,346 was paid in tuition for two Building Systems employees who are attending Ranken Technical College to achieve their two year certificate in Electrical Automation Technology.
		A new roof membrane and a chimney cap were installed at Cliff Cave Branch at a cost of $7,153.  A new exhaust hood was installed on the roof at Bridgeton Trails for $3,020.  It replaces the hood that was ripped off during a tornado last May.  Insurance proceeds will cover the cost of this expense.
		Sealing and striping were completed at six branch parking lots at a cost of $35,125.  The work was approved by the Board in March, 2013.  New CD bins were purchased for Headquarters at a cost of $4,495.  Stools were also purchased at a cost of $2,956 for a new laptop bar to be installed at Headquarters.  New chairs were purchased for the Reference and Special Collections employees for $8,357.
		Capital Projects
		Total Construction in Progress increased in September by $68,072.  Costs incurred were for legal fees from Lashly & Baer, management fees incurred by Landmark, architectural services provided by Christner, and environmental site assessments and geotechnical services provided by SCI Engineering for the new Tesson Ferry Branch location.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
		Interim Director's Report
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		Meramec Valley
		Kristen Sorth reported that she attended the Fenton Board of Aldermen meeting on September 26, 2013 regarding the future site for Meramec Valley. The City of Fenton requires three readings of a zoning petition and the Library’s was read twice. The third reading will take place on October 24, 2013.  In addition, the Special Use Permit was submitted to the City of Fenton on October 7, 2013. A preliminary site plan will be reviewed at the November 6, 2013 Public Hearing in Fenton.
		Tesson Ferry
		Ms. Sorth reported that the traffic study of the intersection at Gravois and Musick Roads, where the new Tesson Ferry may be built, was conducted and submitted to the Missouri Department of Transportation as well as St. Louis County Department of Highways and Traffic. She said the Library is waiting for recommendations from those two agencies. With the assistance of Lashly Baer, an amendment to the land purchase contract with McBride Berra was negotiated and signed for the future location of Tesson Ferry. The amendment to the contract extends the due diligence period to November 19, 2013, the zoning contingency to February 19, 2014 and the closing date to February 28, 2014. It also clarifies the responsibilities for the storm and sanitary sewers on the property.
		She also reported that members of the Administration, Facilities, branches and Landmark continue to meet with the architects on the architectural programming of the facilities for Lewis and Clark, Meramec Valley and Tesson Ferry. The Library will issue an RFQ for architectural services for Rock Road, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Daniel Boone in January. Ed Clark, Gib Van Cleve and Kristen Sorth met with Landmark and engineers from KAI to begin discussions on the mechanical aspects of the new branches.
		Kristen Sorth and Todd Hornburg from Landmark met with newly hired Construction Manager, S.M. Wilson, to talk about the projects. Representatives from S.M. Wilson will be attending all meetings with the architects from this point forward.
		Ms. Sorth gave the following Library Update:
		 Money Matters is a financial literacy project that was made possible by a grant from the FINRA Investor Education Foundation through Smart investing@your library®, a partnership with the American Library Association. St. Louis County Library was awarded the grant in December 2012 and the grant period extends through February 2015. The four-part program series offers concurrent educational classes for parents and teens on topics including spending plans, credit, banking, and saving and investing. The program is designed to increase financial literacy within families, and to better prepare teens and their parents to be effective managers of their own finances. The adult presentations are made by the Library’s three university partners from the Center for Entrepreneurship and Economic Education at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, the University of Missouri-Extension, and Lincoln University-Extension. The teen presentations are made by a volunteer instructor with Junior Achievement. The first two rounds of classes have been offered at Natural Bridge and Florissant Valley. The next cycle of classes will be offered at Lewis and Clark. The Library has also been working closely with the school districts in these areas to help market and promote these important classes.
		 As mentioned in previous reports, the 2014 budget will include the expansion of Sunday Hours to three additional locations: Natural Bridge, Thornhill and Cliff Cave. With the addition of these locations we will be open year round on Sunday at seven locations. Currently HQ, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone and Tesson Ferry are open on Sunday.
		 We are working with the Community Action Agency of St. Louis County (CAASTLC) to provide informational literature on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) for Health Insurance. CAASTLC Certified Application Counselors have also been scheduled to offer enrollment information and assistance to customers at the following branches: Grand Glaize, Oak Bend, Florissant Valley, Natural Bridge and Lewis and Clark. Unfortunately, the Application Counselors are still waiting for their licenses from the State. Until the licenses are received, they will be restricted to offering information only. Barbara Brain, Assistant Director of Adult and Support Services, explained that the Community Action Agency recruits people who go through training and obtain a license from the State of Missouri to show that they are Certified Application Counselors able to assist people who are applying for healthcare. The Application Counselors will bring laptops for the sessions. This service is advertised through our website.  Dr. Beckwith requested that printed materials be posted for those who don't have computers.
		 The Library’s tax rates that were set at the September Board Meeting were certified by the Missouri State Auditor’s Office on September 26, 2013.
		 Outreach Services will provide discarded paperback books to the St. Louis County Correctional Facility and the Juvenile Correctional Facility. There is a great need for reading material at both of these locations.
		 As mentioned in July, the Library received a $15,000 grant from the Green Foundation to purchase additional FLIP Kits. FLIP Kits contain early literacy items including a book and activity sheets. The grant money will allow the Library to purchase additional kits for the rest of the branches. These have been purchased and are extremely popular.
		 The Rick Riordan event that took place at HQ on October 12, 2013 was very successful. 900 people attended. There were individuals at the event from Chicago, Ontario and Florida. Over half in attendance indicated that this was the first author event they had attended.
		 The Library has committed to participating in the Library Journal Design Institute. Ms. Sorth has been talking with Waller McGuire from St. Louis Public Library about SLCL’s responsibilities. She will be moderating a panel on November 8, 2013. The Library previously committed to assisting with the cost of a bus for a tour. She will be talking to the Foundation about this cost.
		 Last September, the Library began offering a monthly series of programs targeting small business owners and those considering starting a business. We partnered with MU Extension and Lynette Watson, a Business Development Specialist with MU's Business & Technology Development Centers has presented many of the programs. The series has been enthusiastically received by attendees and also by a number of the area's small business support organizations. It has helped us to attract a new audience to the library and given us an opportunity to promote the business reference resources we already own.
		 The Library is hosting four “mini-cons” for teens on Friday nights during the month of October at Florissant Valley, Tesson Ferry, Daniel Boone and Thornhill: Maker con, Comic con, Anime Con and Zombie Con. These are small conventions held for teens that focus on topics that interest them. These have been extremely popular.
		 In June this year, the Library purchased Camtasia screen recording and editing software for use in generating brief informational and training videos for staff and patrons. Tiffany Davis, one of our Reference Librarians has developed several webcasts showing step-by-step how to access information from databases.
		 Ms. Sorth attended the Library Foundation Board’s planning session and retreat on October 8, 2013.
		Library Employee Update
		 The Library is conducting fire drills at HQ and the branches as part of its Safety program.
		 The Budget Committee is working on the 2014 budget. It will be presented to the Library Board at the November Board Meeting.
		 Ms. Sorth was selected to participate in the Leadership St. Louis program. The program provides community immersion experiences and advanced skill development which enable the 66 selected participants to explore critical issues in our region. Leadership St. Louis classes meet for full-day sessions on Friday and Saturday each month from September to May. Mrs. Cunnane and Dr. Tai were past participants.  Mrs. Cunnane commented that this is a great program.
		 The Library’s In Service day was held on October 14, 2013. The day is mandatory for full time staff and part time staff can also attend. 425 employees attended. The morning began with Board Member Edith Cunnane addressing the employees followed by a construction update given by Kristen Sorth. The Assistant Directors and Ms. Sorth then answered questions from the staff. Employees were able to choose four of six breakout sessions to attend. Employee of the Year, Ken Kriegshauser, was also honored. Mr. Kriegshauser is a Library Assistant at Tesson Ferry. The Library administration received very good feedback on the day.
		Library Facility Update
		 New wallpaper is being installed in the Oak Bend meeting room.
		 Painting in the main reading area and the children’s area at Cliff Cave will take place in the next couple of weeks.
		Author Events
		There are several notable author events coming up in the fall.
		 A. Scott Berg, Pulitzer prize-winning author, will be here on October 21, 2013 to discuss his new book “Wilson.”   A. Scott Berg will also be the guest speaker at the Foundation’s Donor Appreciation Day lunch on the same date.
		 Bestselling author Sara Paretsky will be here on October 29, 2013 to present her new book “Critical Mass.”
		 Award-winning KMOX Talk Show Host Charlie Brennan will be here on Thursday, November 7, 2013.
		 Joe Scarborough, former Republican congressman and the host of MSNBC's "Morning Joe" will be here on November 15, 2013. This is a ticketed event.
		 Amy Tan will be here on November 16, 2013 to present her first novel in 10 years, “The Valley of Amazement.” This is a ticketed event.
		 Martin Cruz Smith, author of “Gorky Park” will be here on November 18, 2013 to present his new novel.
		Employee of the Year
		Tesson Ferry circulation assistant Ken Krieghauser was introduced as the Employee of the Year. He addressed the Board and explained many of his duties and his interest in working with teens.  He also spoke about mini-cons focusing on the zombie convention. He was congratulated by the Board for his award.
		Ms. Sorth announced that Darryl Wallace would follow her report with a presentation on the Sorting and Transportation Departments.
		Transportation and Security - Darryl Wallace
		Transportation and Security Manager Darryl Wallace gave a PowerPoint presentation on the operation of the bookmobiles, sorting and delivery.  Mr. Wallace said that the school bookmobiles serve 16-18 schools each month and are ambassadors for the Library.  The bookmobile units are 40 foot plus units equipped with ramps so that they are accessible to students in wheelchairs.
		Mr. Wallace described the conveyor belt system used in Sorting, the system of branch pre-sorts by location and stated that the introduction of floating collections reduced the amount of sorting and delivery by about a third.  The library uses one van and 3 box trucks and drivers make daily deliveries to branches, taking books, supplies and sometimes furniture.
		In answer to questions from board members, Colleen Hall explained that the schools served are selected based on a number of criteria such as the condition of the school’s library, fine rates and the current schedule.  Kathy Wiese explained that books are selected for Outreach separately from the branches.  Dr. Beckwith requested a copy of the school bookmobile schedule and thanked Mr. Wallace for the presentation.
		Construction Update Presented by Landmark
		Scott Kolath and Todd Hornbeck were present to represent Landmark. Mr. Kolath reported on the status of the 8 construction projects in Phase 1of the building projects. Phase 1A consists of replacement building projects for Tesson Ferry (TF), Lewis & Clark (LC) and Meramec Valley (MV).  Phase 1 B will consist of the remodeling projects for Jamestown Bluffs (JB), Indian Trails (IT), Daniel Boone (DB), and Rock Road (RR) as well as a replacement building for Mid-County (MC). Schematic design for Phase 1A projects began in August and conceptual designs will be shown at the November Board meeting.  Steve Sachs requested a copy of the original budget.
		Thrift Books
		Barbara Brain, Assistant Director of Adult and Support Services and Eric Button, Assistant Director of Branch Services, discussed the current system of maintaining a sale table of discarded and donated materials at each location. This raises additional funds for the library but at the cost of considerable staff time and storage space so another approach has been investigated.
		Library staff learned about a company called Thrift Books during a visit to the King County Library System (KCLS) in suburban Seattle. Thrift Books is the largest online seller of used books in the country. KCLS sends its surplus materials to a Thrift Books warehouse where they are processed for sale online. Thrift Books pays KCLS 50% of the sale proceeds for these materials. Anything that they are unable to sell is recycled.
		Staff has discussed this service with Thrift Books directly and toured their local warehouse, Silver Arch books.  In using Thrift Books, customers will have access to all surplus material from the library, not just their local branch.  Materials are reasonably priced and will be shipped for free to customers’ homes.  The library will benefit by freeing up staff time and floor space to better serve customers. There is no cost to the library for using this service and our current revenue from the sale table, approximately $100,000 per year, should be replaced, at least in part, by the profit sharing proceeds from Thrift Books.
		All surplus materials would be sent to Thrift Books, except for those needed to stock the Recycled Reads and Sweet Reads programs. Sale tables at each location would be eliminated in January 2014. Signage alerting customers to the change will be displayed in December.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to use Thrift Books to process and sell discarded library materials and donated items (Sachs/Tai).
		Strategic Planning Facilitation
		Library planner Marie Conlin addressed the Board regarding responses to a recent RFQ for Strategic Planning Services to assist in the data collection and development of a new strategic plan.
		The RFQ was distributed on September 5, 2013 with responses due by September 19, 2013. Five consultants responded. In accordance with Library policy, Kristen Sorth, Barbara Turkington, Barbara Brain, Eric Button and Marie Conlin independently reviewed and ranked the proposals based on the responses given to the proposal requirements. Once ranked, fee envelopes were opened and the three top-ranked firms were selected for interviews. The fees for those firms are as follows: Berardi Consulting: $4,320 for 12 focus groups, all inclusive (This is a one-person company and Library staff would be responsible for much of the actual work); The Vandiver Group: $49,800 for 12 focus groups, all inclusive, plus $6,850 for a survey; Vector Communications: $32,400 for 12 focus groups, additional work, including survey development at $65-$180 per hour.
		Ms. Conlin stated that Vector Communications offered the best approach for our planning needs. In response to the Board’s question about the lowest bidder not being selected, Kristen Sorth stated that the lower priced respondent consisted of just one person and that much of the work would need to be performed by library staff. She said that administration felt it would be preferable for an independent consultant to run the focus groups.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to select Vector Communications to provide strategic planning facilitation services to the Library District (Cunnane/Tai).
		Administration determined that Vector Communications is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Vector Communications: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed. Local clients include: St. Louis Zoo, City of St. Louis, Great Rivers Greenway, United Way of Greater St. Louis, East-West Gateway Council of Governments, St. Louis County Economic Council and Metro Transit/Bi-State Development Agency.
		Personnel Policy Revisions – Family and Medical Leave
		Kristen Sorth said that the FMLA policy has been restated to reflect changes in the law as it relates to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), military leave covered under the policy and any additional changes made to the law. McMahon Berger, the Library’s HR Legal Counsel, assisted with the restatement.
		The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the restatement of the Library’s Family and Medical Leave of Absence Policy (Cunnane/Sachs). The
		policy will be updated in the Library’s Personnel Manual and distributed to Library employees.
		Adjournment
		Mrs. Cunnane made a motion to adjourn the meeting for executive session. Mr. Sachs seconded.  The Meeting ended at 4:50 pm.  All others agreed by voice vote.
		Respectfully submitted,
		_____________________________                                      _____________________
		Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date