{
  "name": "Special Board Meeting",
  "description": "Special Meeting Concerning Prop L",
  "unique": "95BNP55EF5E9",
  "date": "2013-01-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

St. Louis County Library District
	Special Meeting of the Board
	Headquarters Branch
	Thursday,  January 17, 2013
	3:30 PM
	This special meeting of the St. Louis County Library district was held on Thursday, January 17, 2013.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library district at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	Attendance:
	Members Present:
	 Lynn L. Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Elena Garcia Kenyon, Treasurer
	Ching-Ling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	Others attending:   Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Turkington, Asst. Director, Advancement; Eric Button, Asst. Director, Branch Services; Barbara Brain, Asst. Director, Adult and Support Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney; Michelle Bock, Piper Jaffray and Mary Bagley, Admin Assistant.
	The meeting opened with Dr. Beckwith offering best wishes to Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, Information Technology and Sandy Williams, Executive Assistant.  He said the Board’s prayers and thoughts are with them.
	The meeting continued with a discussion on bond issues led by Michelle Bock of Piper Jaffray, the Library’s Financial Advisor. Bock said it is common for government entities to do large projects by borrowing the money. It is even more important and a fiduciary responsibility to maximize revenue by borrowing low-interest rates and funds on as many projects as possible.  Since the library has a future stream of revenue, it can service debt with revenue coming in.  The debt is used to fund projects up front with funds that the board approves.
	Bock added that the library district could borrow every three years (2013, 2016, and 2019) as long as the district services the debt with cash flow and has a revenue stream in place.  She mentioned the two types of bonds, the General Obligation Bond in which voters approve the exact amount, but the Certificate of Participation (also known as Lease Financing) leaves more flexibility for the borrower. She said the assumptions and growth rates made by her firm are conservative with a 1% increase.
	Bock referred to the (handout) chart made by Piper Jaffray: on the right is the carry-over balance over time, and it builds to $70 million. Every other year, the county assesses the property, so a 1 %  increase was allowed.
	Steve Sachs questioned why the district would want to take on debt obligation for 25 years, and it was answered that the district would generate $11 million per year. One half of the money goes for debt service.  Then he inquired what the district would do with all the money. He was told that $38 million is the current operating expense.
	Charles Pace said some surplus money could retire debt early; in addition, the district would borrow for capital improvements, programming services and also have Library branches open on Sundays year round in addition to possibly adding more branches. The district will have greater flexibility.  It is up to us to deliver a high-quality product.  We want to make sure voters are highly pleased.  He said there is no reason why we can’t have the top system in the country. We are high up in the top 20 in the country on usage and customer satisfaction. Most of these libraries have levies higher than St. Louis County Library.
	Edith Cunnane praised Charles Pace’s leadership and said he has done a lot to bring us into the twenty-first century. She also asked if changes to the budget needed to be made, and was told, yes.
	Lynn Beckwith asked why the administration took bids in December when many companies were on vacation or on holiday.  He said he wanted to make sure there was no favoritism involved so everyone had equal opportunity to bid.  Kristen Sorth replied that this was needed for the January Board meeting because there was no meeting in February.  This was to stay on schedule.   Nine companies bid on the request.  Lisa Stump stated that we needed a person who would provide us guidance in the big picture.  We are looking at firms who will select architects and engineers.  Lashly Baer was very involved in the process.
	Bock said she had several primary tasks including defining the scope of the project, discussing the rating and having conference calls with the rating agencies. She said the money could be available by the end of April.
	Beckwith suggested that the administration present the Board with a priority list on what is important to do with the money.  He said it is best in black and white.
	Elena Garcia Kenyan said the meeting had been very informative, and thanked everyone for being there. Beckwith seconded that.
	Edith Cunnane made a motion to adjourn. Chingling Tai seconded.   All approved by voice vote.
	Steve Sachs made a motion to go into closed session.  Elena Kenyon seconded.  The motion was approved.
	The meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.
	Respectfully submitted,
	Dr. Chingling Tai                                                                                Date
	Secretary