{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93KUG87BF270",
  "date": "2013-01-28T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013
		The monthly meeting of the St. Louis County Library District was held on Monday, January 28, 2013. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Members present:
		Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		Elena G. Kenyon, Treasurer
		Chingling Tai,  Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Others attending:
		Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services, Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Melissa Vighi, Lashly Baer; Joshua Richardson, McMahon Berger; Mary Bagley, Admin. Asst.
		 Approval of Minutes
		The Board approved the December 17, 2012 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Public Comments
		There were no public comments.
		Treasurer's Report
		Kristen Sorth reported that there was a balance of $25,430,652 in the Cash on Deposit line item under Assets.  This is the bulk of the 2012 taxes.  The Board will be asked to approve $21 million in related investments later in today's meeting.  The cash will be invested in a couple of weeks.
		Gifts and contributions: The Foundation donated $25,000 to cover costs of the Teen Center built at Lewis and Clark.  It has been completed.
		Building Repair: The skylight removal has been completed at the Thornhill Branch and the final payment was in the amount of $72,556.  Also, the completion of the roof repair at the Bridgeton Trails Branch was finished in December. The remaining expenses of $144,347 were paid.  The insurance proceeds covering this cost have been received.
		Technology:  The Library incurred $33,446 in our continued effort to replace older model personal computers throughout the Library branches.
		Capital Improvements:  The HVAC control updates at 13 branch locations were completed in December, and final expenses of $60,727 were paid.  Also, Thornhill's Plaza had crumbling concrete which was becoming dangerous to our customers.  New concrete was poured at a cost of $39,594.
		The Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
		Director’s Report
		Customer Service Issues
		Mr. Pace reported that due to the holiday period things were fairly quiet at the Library this past month. There were a few reports of thefts taking place, usually items such as cell phones or bicycles.  He said 2012 was a record year for the Library in many ways. The Library ended the year with an all time high in circulation of nearly 14.4 million items, an increase of more than 13% over the previous year. Looking back at the statistics, circulation has increased every month (on a year to year basis) for 59 of the last 60 months. The lone exception being February of 2011 in which we witnessed a dip due to being closed several days for inclement weather. Visits to the Library were also at an all time high with nearly 6.35 million being recorded, nearly twice the record setting amount seen by the St. Louis Zoo in 2012! We also had nearly 25,000 registrations for our first ever Winter Reading Club with more than ten thousand completions turned in. 2012 was definitely a year for the record books.
		Major Library Events
		There were no major events scheduled during December as is typical for the holiday period.
		Community Activities/Branch Visits
		Mr. Pace visited the Rock Road, Sachs, and Oak Bend branches during the past month and spoke with staff there regarding programs and services needed in those communities. On January 8, he spoke to the Chesterfield Chamber of Commerce about the future plans for the growth and expansion of the Library as well as the possible future Center for Family History in Chesterfield.
		Facilities
		* A push button has been installed on the elevator at Lewis and Clark so that a key is no longer required for operation.
		* Mr. Pace announced that he would present a recommendation for a new pop (early literacy) van later in the meeting.
		* The water line to supply the community garden at Prairie Commons was scheduled to be installed on January 21.
		* We are investigating options for putting a snow guard on the roof at Cliff Cave, this follows an incident in which several patrons cars were partially buried by snow falling from the roof.
		Da Vinci Exhibit Partnership
		Mr. Pace said the Library is currently partnering with the Da Vinci Exhibit that is going on downtown. This exhibit displays machines that are built based on plans Leonardo Da Vinci first created hundreds of years ago. The curator of the collection is doing a number of programs for us and with us and we are getting publicity as an exhibit partner. Mr. Pace said he thought this was a good way to expand our reach in the community.
		Upcoming Library Events
		Mr. Pace reported that the the star of the OWN (Oprah Winfrey) network’s “Sweetie Pies”, Ms. Robbie Montgomery joined us on January 25 at 7 pm to kick off our celebration of Black History Month. Ms. Montgomery spoke about her experiences as a successful entrepreneur and businesswoman as well as the success of her television show.
		The St. Louis County Library Foundation's 'Buzz' Westfall Favorite Author Series Presents An Evening with Al Gore Author of "The Future: Six Drivers of Global Change", Saturday, February 9, 2013, 7:00 p.m. (Doors open at 6:00 p.m.) This will take place in the St. Louis County Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd.
		The St. Louis County Library's Reading Garden Event Series presents Popular Teen Writers Ally Carter and Victoria Schwab, Saturday, February 16, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  Sensationally popular author Ally Carter teams up with talented new novelist Victoria Schwab to present an exciting evening for teen readers.
		Author of the bestselling Gallagher Girls series, Ally Carter presents the third installment in her Heist Society series featuring teenage criminal mastermind Katarina Bishop. In "Perfect Scoundrels," Kat must keep a level head as she and her crew fight for one of their own.
		Victoria Schwab's "The Archived" is an imaginative supernatural thriller about a mysterious library of the dead and the 16-year-old tasked with handling the dangerous souls who escape.  Books for signing will be available for purchase from Barnes & Noble.
		Nathan Englander, "What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank", Wednesday, March 6, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarter-Auditorium. These eight new stories from the celebrated novelist and short-story writer Nathan Englander explore the complexity of the Jewish experience and tackle the largest questions of morality and history. "What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank" displays a gifted young author grappling with the issues of modern life, with a command of language and the imagination that place Englander at the very forefront of contemporary American fiction.
		Director’s Goals
		Mr. Pace reported that Goal 5 of his 2013 Goals includes a quarterly report regarding staff diversity. Please see attached for the report.
		Library Closing - Action Item
		Mr. Pace requested permission to close the Library Headquarters at 5 pm on Wednesday, April 3 in order to prepare for the Caroline Kennedy program. The Board unanimously approved the request.
		 Old Business
		457/Deferred Compensation Plan
		The Administration recommended that the Library contract with the Moneta Group to provide advisory services for the Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan.  Employee participation in this plan is low.  Out of 650 employees, only 94 or 14% participate. If approved, the Library will end contracts with Lincoln, MetLife and Nationwide.   In addition, Moneta will begin discussions with these three companies in an effort to acquire the accounts of Library employees.  Also, if approved, the Library Board will review additional items related to the Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan in upcoming Board meetings.  This item falls outside of the Library’s Professional Services policy because the Library does not pay the vendor. Mr. Sachs said he is interested in having more people participate. He said the  Library could consider a small matching amount. The current incentive is a onetime contribution of $100 if an employee signs up within two months of employment.
		Mrs. Cunnane asked if people were leaving library and do they have to keep it as long as with the library.
		The Board approved the recommendation from Administration to have the Library contract with the Moneta Group to provide advisory services for the Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		 New Business
		Facilities Master Plan Administration Services
		The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Landmark to provide Facilities Master Plan Administration Services to the Library District.  We have determined that Landmark is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee.  Landmark is a St. Louis based construction management company. This company will coordinate all aspects of the facilities' master plan. We had 9 firms who responded. The committee independently reviewed and ranked each firm. Local clients include the Francis Howell School District.  The $160 million project included eight renovations, eleven additions, nine new schools, a new administration center, four libraries, five gymnasiums and several sports complexes.  Landmark also provided program management services for the City of Maryland Heights for its $78 million capital improvement program which included the aquatic center, community center, city park and soccer complex.  In addition, Landmark has recently worked with the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center on a $75 million project.  Landmark’s references also included the Collinsville Community School District, Peabody Energy and the St. Louis County Economic Council.  All of their references were excellent.
		The Board approved the Administration's recommendation to select Landmark to provide Facilities Master Plan Administration Services to the Library District (Cunnane/Tai). The Library Board requested that administration strengthen language.   That language is following:  The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select Landmark Contact Management, Inc. (“Landmark”) to provide Facilities Master Plan Administration Services to the Library District.    The Library Administration has determined that Landmark is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services.
		In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Landmark: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed.
		A few of Landmark’s major program manager experiences include: (a) Francis Howell School District ($160 Million) Building Program (eight renovations, eleven additions, nine new schools, new administration center, four libraries, five gymnasiums, performing arts center, sports complexes); (b) Maryland Heights ($78 Million) Capital Improvement Program (aquatic center, community center, city park and soccer complex); and (c) Donald Danforth Plant Sciences ($75 Million) (48 research laboratories, library, lecture auditorium, cafeteria, recreation area, atrium).
		As shown in these projects, Landmark, as a St. Louis based program management services company, possesses specialized experience and technical competence, capacity and capability and past experience with comparable work which are superior to the other responders’ qualifications.  In addition, Landmark’s understanding of the Library’s specific needs for a facilities master plan administrator were clearly demonstrated in Landmark’s Response materials and its subsequent interview with Library Administration.  Also, references for Landmark were excellent.
		Fees from the three top ranked firms interviewed included Jacobs at $4,497,629; Landmark at $2,160,000; and Sitton at $1,420,000. Although Sitton’s fees were lower than Landmark’s fees, the fee evaluation factor was substantially outweighed by the other three evaluation factors including specialized experience and technical competence, the capacity and capability and the past experience with references for comparable work.
		Therefore, in using the required evaluation factors in Policy II, the Library Administration determined that Landmark’s experience, competence, capacity, capability and past experience coupled with its fees of $2,160,000 made Landmark the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee.
		Investment Policy
		The Library District, as a political subdivision of the State of Missouri, which manages and invests public funds and which has existing authority to invest such funds in a manner other than in depository accounts at financial institutions, is required to adopt and comply with a written investment policy providing certain requirements.
		The Missouri State Treasurer’s office is required to prepare a model form of an investment policy reflecting such policy requirements. Any political subdivision which formally adopts the State Treasurer’s form investment policy shall be deemed to be in compliance with the written policy requirements.
		The Library's proposed Investment Policy for the Library District is consistent with the State Treasurer’s model form to meet the policy requirements and modified to contain specific requirements governing the Library District. Kristen Sorth reported that the Library needs its own investment policy.  As we go forward, we felt it was important to have an official investment policy. Melissa Vighi from Lashly Baer reported that the policy is specific to statutes for the Library district.  It is modeled after the state treasurer's office.
		The Board approved the Library Administration's recommendation to approve the Investment Policy as written by the attorneys at Lashly Baer (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Debt Management Strategy
		We have worked with Michelle Bock, the Library’s Financial Advisor, to develop the Debt Management Strategy. This document contains guidelines which combine the requirements of Missouri law, policies, resolutions and actions of the Board relating to debt management. While not required, a debt management strategy is an important document to have as we begin working with the rating agencies prior to the Library’s debt issuance. The document is attached for the Library Board’s information.
		It is intended to be a working document that will be reviewed from year to year.   This is a good step to make sure the Library is viewed in the best light possible.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation for Debt Management Strategy (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Cliff Cave Snow Retention
		On January 2, 2013, melting snow and ice fell simultaneously from the roof on the west side of the branch at Cliff Cave. Several minutes later, snow and ice fell from the roof on the east side of the branch subsequently burying four cars belonging to Library customers. Thankfully, no customers were injured during the event. This is a concern for future snow events particularly because only a couple inches of snow had fallen.
		Ed Clark has discussed this incident with Firestone which manufactures the Thermoplastic Polyolefin (TPO) roof at Cliff Cave. They are recommending that we install alpine snow guards that are approved for TPO systems. The cost of the snow guards is $5332. Sielfleisch installed the current roof and holds the warranty.
		The cost for installation of the snow guards to manufacturer’s specifications is $18,519. Ed has verified this installation price with Firestone.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation for the purchase and installation of the Snow Retention System at the total cost of $23,851 (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Preschool Outreach Van
		The 2013 Library budget included the purchase of an additional vehicle for the Preschool Outreach Program (POP). The Library currently provides materials to 70 daycares in St. Louis County. The materials are preschool reading kits which include books, music CDs, educational DVDs and activity sheets.
		The second van will assist with this growing program and will provide an additional service of Story Time for the children and literacy activities with the teachers using the Every Child Ready to Read model.  The Library sent a request for bids which included the required specifications to Dodge dealerships in the metro area. We received responses from the following three dealerships.
		Glendale Chrysler Jeep Dodge RAM - $23,000
		Mid Rivers Chrysler Jeep Dodge - $24,227
		Marty Cancila Dodge - $24,325
		The Library Board approved the recommendation by Administration to accept the lowest bid from Glendale Chrysler Jeep Dodge RAM in the amount of $23,000 (Cunnane/Tai).
		New HVAC Controls (Sachs and Jamestown Bluffs)
		In September 2012, The Library Board approved the purchase of updated HVAC controls at thirteen branches. The automated control system manages the starting, stopping or regulation of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. The 2013 budget includes HVAC control updates for Sachs and Jamestown Bluffs. Updated HVAC controls will use Windows based software which results in many benefits to the Library including energy and efficiency savings. In addition, the Building Systems staff will have the ability to remotely maintain thermal comfort conditions, maintain optimum indoor air quality, identify maintenance problems, and monitor system performance. Because Sachs and Jamestown have older HVAC systems, more work is required for this upgrade.
		Automation Solutions Groups (ASG) is the vendor for the Library’s automated control system. Because the controls are closely tied to the rest of the HVAC equipment, we plan to remain with this vendor.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's recommendation to purchase a windows based automated control system for Sachs and Jamestown Bluffs (Cunnane/Sachs). The cost to update the controls at Sachs and Jamestown Bluffs is $201,913.
		Investments
		Finance manager Kris Mooney reported that requests were sent to 25 investment banks for their current interest rates.  Five banks replied with quotes. Commerce Bank had the best rates. Fifth Third Bank had a better rate, but submitted rates for non collateralized rates. We are required to do business with banks that offer collateralized rates.
		The Library Board approved the Administration's request to invest the entire 2013 investment  portfolio of 21 million with Commerce Bank (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Food for Fines
		Mr. Pace reported that for the past fourteen years, the Library has recognized National Library Week by offering a “Food for Fines” program. National Library Week will be celebrated April 14-20 this year and, during that time, customers will be allowed to pay outstanding fines with canned goods. The food is then given to Operation Food Search for distribution to local food pantries. “Food for Fines” has generated positive publicity for the Library and it also encourages the return of overdue items. Last year, we collected over 33,000 cans of food and waived $32,561 in fines.  Customers have been able to exchange one can of food for $1 in fines up to a maximum of $10. The Library receives a lot of positive publicity and encourages the return of overdue items.
		The Board approved the Administration's recommendation that the “Food for Fines” program be offered again this year with a $10 maximum per account (Cunnane/Tai).
		Adjourn
		A motion was made by Mr. Sachs to adjourn the meeting.  It was seconded by Mrs. Kenyon.  All approved by voice vote.
		The meeting adjourned at 4:45 p.m.
		Respectfully submitted,
		Chingling Tai                                                                   Date
		Secretary