{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LSYY74B6F8",
  "date": "2013-06-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
			MEETING OF THE BOARD
			HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
			MONDAY, JUNE 17, 2013
			The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, June 17, 2013 at 3:30 p.m.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
			Attendance:
			Library Board Members:
			            Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
			            Edith Cunnane, Vice President
			            Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
			            Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
			            Steve Sachs, Member
			Administrators and Guests Attending:
			Charles Pace, Director; Kristen Sorth, Assistant Director, Administration; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Gerard Puleo, Ameresco, Erik Froelich, Ameresco; Scott Korath, LCM; Melissa Vighi, Lashly Baer; Jon Boesch, St. Louis County Government; Dave Gannon, Colliers and Wendy Trimm, Colliers.
			Staff and Guests Attending:  Bobby Jones, Erin Chapman, Stephanie Nordmann, Tracy Fletcher, Keir Haug, Lisa Haddox, Debbie Podgorski, Connie Dee, Michael Cohen, Gina Becker, Cheri Remington, Trudy Williams, Ellen Meschke, Paul Bayless, Marie Conlin, Rachel Nowell Scott Holl, Laura Kasak, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood, Erin Magner, Christina Pryor, Anna Strackeljahn, Lori Boschert, Anna Schurk, Carrie Robb, Joyce Loving, Anna Huckeby, Stacy Berger, Edith Isele, Jennifer Jung, Natalia Catlett, Aaron Eller, Mary Arnhart, Colleen Hall, Jennifer Alexander, Kris Mooney, Ed Clark, Anne Arthur, and Sandra Williams.
			Approval of Minutes
			The Library Board approved the May 20, 2013 minutes as presented (Cunnane/Tai).
			Public Comment
			There was no public comment.
			Treasurer's Report
			Kristen Sorth reported that investment activity for May included the calling of the Library’s Fannie Mae bond on May 23, 2013.  The bond was redeemed and generated $10,000 in interest income.  On May 31st, the Library had a certificate mature, generating $1300 in interest.  The funds were determined not to be needed for funding of immediate operations and were reinvested in another U.S. agency bond purchased in early June.
			In May, the Library received $3,150,115.37 in tax revenue, most of which is the annual disbursement of property taxes that have been held due to property owner protests.  The Library also received $2,788.34 from the State of Missouri as a result of the Athlete’s and Entertainer’s tax.
			The Library continues to support its popular Summer Reading Club. In May, $69,715 was spent on prizes.
			At the close of the Library’s issuance of Certificates of participation (debt issuance) on April 30th, funds in the amount of $58,242,980.60 were received into our trustee’s bank account (BOK Financial-Kansas City, MO).
			(Steve Sachs and Elena Kenyon joined the meeting.)
			The Library Board approved the Treasurer's report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
			Director's Report
			Mr. Pace reported that he received a number of favorable comments about the Summer Reading Program in the monthly informal comments that are gathered by staff. The Library also received a comment from one individual about how her son overcame his fear of speaking in public by talking about a Lego project he had completed at the Library to the rest of the group. Another woman commented on the fact that she suffered from macular degeneration and her ability to download e-books from the library to her Nook allowed her to continue to read when otherwise this might not be possible.  Mr. Pace said comments such as these, point out the positive impact we are having on many lives every day.
			The Summer Reading Program registration is at an all time record high. Thanks to early registration in the schools, we have signed up more than 83,000 children of all ages for Summer Reading. We have more than 10,000 adults who are participating in the Adult Reading Club, bringing our total for all ages to more than 95,000.   Mr. Pace said he believed we would exceed 100,000 in the next week or two. Circulation of library materials continues to be strong and usage for May showed an increase of 7.4% compared to May of 2012.  We expect circulation to total about 15 million by the end of the year.
			Major Library Events
			A program with Richard Paul Evans, author of "A Step of Faith" was held Tuesday, May 21, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  About 175 people attended this program.
			Steve Coll was a guest of The St. Louis County Library Foundation's 'Buzz' Westfall Favorite Author Series.  A Pulitzer Prize-Winning Journalist, he is author of "Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power" Monday, June 3, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters-Auditorium.There were about 130 in attendance for this program.
			Author Craig Johnson, writer of "A Serpent's Tooth" was a guest Friday, June 14, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters-Auditorium. There were around 175 people who came here Mr. Johnson speak.
			In addition to these programs, over 200 people joined us at Headquarters on Friday, June 7 for a night of jazz with Kim Massie. Photos are available on the Library’s Flickr page.
			Community Activities/Branch Visits
			Mr. Pace reported that he visited Lewis and Clark and Bridgeton Trails Branches to check on damage from the recent storms.  Fortunately most of the damage consisted of downed tree limbs, though there was some minor roof damage at Bridgeton Trails.
			He also reported that the Library is starting a new partnership with the Hazelwood School District called “Sweet Reads”. During the summer, the Library is sending out vans with donated or discarded materials to targeted neighborhoods in the Hazelwood area. Children will be asked to return the items in order to get more but they will not be “checked out” per se. The purpose of this project is to encourage reading over the summer and to avoid the “summer drop off” in reading scores. This “summer drop off” was identified as the biggest single issue facing the Hazelwood School District, so we developed this program to help address this need.
			ALA Conference
			Mr. Pace said he would be in Chicago from June 26-30 to attend the American Library Association Annual Conference. Afterward he will be on vacation from July 1-5.
			Mr. Pace reported that the new 457 deferred compensation Plan
			has attracted 46 brand new participants since it was approved by the Board earlier this year. This is an increase of 50% compared to the number of employees in the plan previously.
			In Facilities, he gave the following report:
			1.     No news on a start date for the snow guards at CC.
			2.     The HVAC controls at SA are 95% done. They are just working on the graphics.
			3.     Preparatory work for parking lot sealing and striping is underway.
			4.     The coils for the AC unit at SA are on order.
			5.     All roof leaks have been repaired.
			6.      Bridgeton Trails repairs are under way.
			7.      New circ desk lighting at HQ is scheduled to be installed by the end of the                                                                                                  month.
			Mr. Pace reported on upcoming Library events.  He said author Michael Kahn, who wrote the "The Flinch Factor" would be coming Tuesday, June 25, 7:00 p.m. to the Library Headquarters-Auditorium.
			He also mentioned the popular author Amy Tan was coming later in the year and Young Adult. Laura Nowlin, author of "If He Had Been With Me" is coming Thursday, July 11, at 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters-Auditorium.  This is presented by the Reading Garden Event Series.
			Mr. Pace said the annual Foundation Starcatchers Gala would be held September 21.  The administration requests permission to close at 1 pm on September 21 for the Library Gala.  The Board approved the request to close early (Sachs/Kenyon).
			Old Business
			None
			New Business
			Kirkwood/Webster Times Article
			In response to a Kirkwood/Webster Times article, System Administrator Manager Stephanie Nordmann presented the Library Board with circulation statistics about the Municipal Consortium.  The check-out statistics were questioned in the article. She said $35,000 billed to Webster Groves Library was questioned.   She said we have had the Reciprocal Lending agreement since 2000. It’s 25 cents per checkout. A consortium member could opt out and their people would pay $50 yearly for an SLCL card, starting in January.
			Ameresco
			A presentation was given by Erik Froehlich and Gerard Puleo of Ameresco.  They are in the renovation business, not new construction.  They presented an option for the Library Board to consider regarding the purchase of buildings.  There is a State statute for renovation that is not utilized by Library.  It is 8.321 and was made in 1997.  Statute gives optional methodology to improve existing buildings. Prop L money can be used for this.  Local references include the Hazelwood School District.
			Employee Benefit-Health Insurance
			The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Coventry. Daniel and Henry has reported that the average health insurance renewal this year is trending 10% – 12%. The 6% renewal from Coventry is below trend and under budget as the budgeted amount for the health insurance renewal was 10%.  This year domestic partnership is included.  The Library Board approved the recommendation to remain with Coventry (Kenyon/Tai).
			Employee Benefit - Dental Insurance
			The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Delta Dental. We have been extremely pleased with the service provided by Delta Dental. The budgeted amount for this increase was 5%. Delta Dental is increasing by 3%.  They have 1100 dentists in the area.  The Library Board unanimously approved remaining with Delta Dental.
			Employee Benefit - Life/Vision Insurance
			The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Reliance Standard for life, AD&D, long-term disability, and voluntary life insurance. There will be a 8.73% increase for the Library’s basic life, accidental death and dismemberment and 9.09% for the long-term disability insurance through Reliance Standard. With the Library Board’s approval, the rates for this coverage will increase from $.22/$.010/$1000 to $.24/$.010/$1000 for basic life/AD&D and increase from $.22/$100 to $.24/$100 for long-term disability. This would be a 2-year rate hold. There were
			no changes to the voluntary life insurance rates. The budgeted amount for this increase was 12.5%.
			The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with VSP for the Library’s optional vision insurance.  We have also received a 0% renewal from VSP, the Library’s vision insurance provider. This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library. The employee rate will remain at $7.95/month and dependent coverage will remain at $17.96/month. The Library Board approved remaining with Reliance Standard for life, AD&D long-term disability, voluntary life and VSP optional vision insurance (Cunnane/Kenyon).
			Part-Time Benefits
			The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we discontinue offering benefits to part-time employees. Daniel and Henry has a designated person on staff that will help employees find excellent insurance for individuals who aren’t eligible for employer-sponsored health insurance. If the Library Board approves this change, this individual will work with any of the thirty-one employees who might want to transition to new individual coverage.  The Library Board unanimously approved the recommendation to discontinue offering the insurance benefit.
			Architect Contracts – KAI
			The Library Administration recommends the Library Board accept the negotiated contracts for Phase One Architectural and Engineering Services with KAI for Lewis and Clark and Meramec Valley.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
			Architect Contracts - Christner
			The Library Administration recommends the Library Board accept the negotiated contracts for Phase One Architectural and Engineering Services with Christner for Tesson Ferry.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Sachs).
			Parking Lots
			The 2013 budget includes parking lot overlays for Bridgeton Trails and Prairie
			Commons.  Due to the deterioration of the parking lots, we are recommending a complete replacement of both parking lots.  Quotes from 8 companies were received.  Library staff recommends accepting the lowest and best bid from Byrne and Jones Construction for Value Engineering at $333,000. Full Depth Reclamation will be used by Byrne and Jones. This process rebuilds worn out asphalt pavements by recycling the existing roadway. The old asphalt and base materials are pulverized, mixed with cement and water, and compacted to produce a strong, durable base for either an asphalt surface. Full-depth reclamation uses the old asphalt and base material for the new road. There’s no need to haul in aggregate or haul out old material for disposal. Truck traffic is reduced, and there is little or no waste.
			The budget for overlaying the parking lots at Bridgeton Trails and Prairie Commons is $150,000. Due to the deterioration of the lots and resulting need for complete replacement, this item is over budget. However, bond proceeds may be used for this project. The project meets the criteria outlined in the bond documents which states that major repairs, which extend the life of the asset and are not included in the Phase One Construction Plan, may be paid for out of the bond proceeds. The budget will be adjusted accordingly during the budget revision.  The Board approved the recommendation (Sachs/Kenyon).
			Mobile Printing System
			The Library regularly receives requests from customers for a library hosted wireless printing solution.  Staff recommends the purchase of Pharos MobilePrint software from TracSystems’s at a cost of $10,680.  The Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Kenyon).
			Adjourn
			Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); legal matters (Section 610.021(1)); and personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)).  The Board approved the adjournment(Sachs/Kenyon).  Each approved with a voice vote.
			The meeting adjourned at 4:50 p.m.
			Respectfully submitted,
			______________________
			Chingling Tai, Secretary