{
  "name": "Regular Meeting at Headquarters",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "93LT2974CE19",
  "date": "2013-07-29T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, JULY 29, 2013
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, MO  63131 on Monday, July, 29, 2013 at 3:30 p.m.  The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		Attendance:
		Library Board Members:
		      Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		      Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		      Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		      Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		      Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Interim Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services;  Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement;  Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Ann Fleming, Citizen; Susan Nagarkatti, citizen; Gwen Knight, Colliers; Jon Boesch, St. Louis County Government, Neil Jaffe, SLCL Foundation Board.
		Staff and Guests Attending:  Bobby Jones,  Kris Mooney, Rachel Nowell, Marsha Ramey, Christina Pryor, Kathy Wiese, Paul Bayless, Wendy Livingston, Mary Arnhart, Anne Arthur, Michael Cohen, Natalia Catlett, Cindy Schultz, Julia Mangner, Alaina Culbertson, Colleen Hall, Kimberly Clark, Jennifer Jung, Aaron Eller, Ed Clark, Anna Schurk, Jennifer McBride, Elen Meschke, Sarah Wood, Lorraine Budke, Kathy Muller, Joyce Loving, Edith Isele, Sri Upadhya, Emily Althoff, Laura Kasak, Donna Spaulding, Connie Dee, Tracy Fletcher, Anna Strackeljahn, Dottie Wobbe, Cindy Fehmel, Erin Magner, Barbara Brain, Parkie Peck, Jennifer Alexander, Amy Hanaway, Stacy Berger, Keir Haug, Stephanie Nordmann, Bobby Jones, Erin Chapman, Roz Kohen, Conrad Rader, Barbara Turkington, Marie Conlin, Carrie Robb, Gwen Knight Sandra Williams.
		Opening Remarks
		Following roll call, Dr. Beckwith reiterated to staff his written memo dated July 23, 2013 regarding the resignation of Mr. Charles Pace, Library Director.  He announced that Kristen Sorth would serve as Interim Library Director and emphasized the Library Board’s full confidence in her leadership. He also requested that all staff give her their full support.
		Approval of Minutes
		The Library Board approved the June 17, 2013 minutes as presented (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Public Comment
		Mr. Fred Hoene, a library customer, addressed the Board regarding the location of the land for the Tesson Ferry replacement branch.  Mr. Hoene was interested in the Library pursuing land at the Clydesdale Park location.  He also requested information regarding how the real estate broker was being compensated.  Dr. Beckwith responded that Interim Director Kristen Sorth would send him a letter after receiving the Board’s answers to his questions.   Mr. Hoene distributed a new map to the Board members of the area he requested them to consider.
		Treasurer's Report
		Kris Mooney presented the Treasurer’s Report.  He stated that on June 27th, the Library had a $3,000,000 certificate mature generating $1,603.33 in interest.  The funds were released into the Library’s general cash account to fund normal operations.
		In expenses, the Library purchased RFID tags in June at a cost of $42,400.
		The Library replaced the carpet at Bridgeton Trails at a cost of $65,436.  The carpet replacement was previously approved by the Board at the March, 2013 meeting.
		Six Library branches had automatic Defibrillator’s installed in 2012, the remaining locations had the same Defibrillator’s installed in June at a cost of $22,015.
		The Library purchased 22 printers, to replace many of the older model’s currently in use, at a cost of $18,490.43.  The printers are for public use and all branches had replacement models installed.
		Mrs. Cunnane asked what happens to replaced computers. Ms. Sorth said she would get the answer from Gib Van Cleve and send it to the Board.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
		Interim Director's Report
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		Kristen Sorth reported that per the Library Board’s approval of the resolutions at the June Library Board Meeting, contracts have been signed to purchase property on which the new Meramec Valley and Tesson Ferry branches will be built. The final purchase price for the Fenton properties (two contracts) was $740,000 which was below the not to exceed price authorized by the Library Board. The final purchase price for the future Tesson Ferry site was $2.9 million which was listed on the contract and reviewed by the Library Board. The Library is currently in the inspection periods for all three contracts and will be reporting back to the Library Board with detailed information and a recommendation for final approval/rejection on the purchases at the end of their respective inspection periods.  During the inspection periods, the Library and our professionals will perform extensive due diligence on the properties. The Library has submitted a zoning application for the future Tesson Ferry site and will be submitting one shortly for the Fenton site. Ms. Sorth said McReynolds Von Trapp has been selected to conduct the appraisal services and SCI to conduct the environmental/geotechnical services for the future Tesson Ferry site in accordance with the procurement resolution approved by the Library Board for Tesson Ferry.
		Ms. Sorth announced that members of the Administration and Landmark will be meeting with the architects during the first full week of August to begin the architectural programming for the facilities for Lewis and Clark, Meramec Valley and Tesson Ferry. This is the research and decision-making process that defines the scope of work to be designed.   The Library is still negotiating the contract with TR,i for the renovation projects at Rock Road, Indian Trails and Jamestown Bluffs.  The Library will review the responses to the Construction Manager RFP.
		Library Update
		Ms. Sorth stated that this has been a very busy summer and she wanted to update the Library Board on several initiatives.
		* The Summer Reading Club statistics continue to be very impressive with registrations at 118,893.   The Summer Reading Club officially ends on August 3, 2013 and final statistics will be reported to the Board at the August meeting.
		* The Library continues to increase its social media presence. We currently have 6247 fans on Facebook and 3626 followers on Twitter. The giant beach ball which was a summer reading club prize was a very popular post on Facebook. Many customers sent in photos of their children with the beach ball. Ms. Sorth announced that a video clip of a child playing with a beach ball awarded by SRC would be shown.
		* The Library currently has 14,000 circulating Ebooks. This continues to be an extremely popular service with an increase in circulation of 51% in 2013.
		* The Library’s Special Collections Department is celebrating its 15 year anniversary this month.  Ms. Sorth said she and Dr. Beckwith attended the celebration.
		* The Library received a $15,000 grant from the Green Foundation to purchase additional FLIP Kits. FLIP Kits contain early literacy items including a book and activity sheets. These kits have been extremely popular with Library customers. Currently, these kits are available at 6 locations. The grant money will allow us to purchase additional kits for the rest of the branches.
		* The Windows 7 updates are progressing on public access computers with half of the branches complete.
		Library Employee Update
		* Open enrollment is complete for insurance renewals. All lines of insurance for Library employees will renew on August 1, 2013.
		* Ms. Sorth announced that the Library would like to develop a wellness initiative for Library employees in 2014. Daniel and Henry, the Library’s insurance broker, will be sending a survey to all Library employees. This information will be used to develop a program based on the suggestions of Library employees.
		Library Facility Update
		* The snow guards have been installed on the roof at Cliff Cave.
		* All of the parking lot work will begin in August. This includes the sealing and striping at several branches and the complete replacements at Bridgeton Trails and Prairie Commons.
		* We are reviewing information for the maintenance or replacement of the automatic doors at several Library branches.
		* The temperature at Tesson Ferry continues to be an issue during the hot and humid days of summer. The Library has provided spot coolers for the employees and fans are also stationed around the branch.
		Author Events
		There are several notable author events coming up in the fall.
		* Popular children’s author of the Percy Jackson series Rick Riordan will be here on October 12, 2013. This will be a ticketed event. In 2009 more than 1700 people attended the Library event.
		*Popular author Amy Tan, renowned for the “Joy Luck Club” will be here on November 16, 2013.
		* Warren Buffet’s son and grandson, Howard G. Buffett and Howard W. Buffett, will be here to discuss "40 Chances: Finding Hope in a Hungry World" on November 11, 2013.
		Old Business
		None
		New Business
		Reading Garden
		SLCL Foundation President Neil Jaffe addressed the Board regarding the 1.25 acre parcel of land donated by Sachs Properties for a Reading Garden.  The Foundation proposed installing the garden at the Sachs Branch.  Mr. Jaffe stated that the architectural plan for the Reading Garden would need to be approved by Sachs Properties and that the deadline for installation is May 2014.  Board member Mr. Steve Sachs indicated that the installation deadline could be extended if necessary.  Mr. Jaffe noted that Library Foundation Board members Ann Fleming and Susan Nagarkatti were present and that Ms. Nagarkatti is one of the major contributors to the proposed garden.
		Sweet Reads and Community Garden
		Barbara Brain reported on the success of the Sweet Reads pilot program, a collaboration between the Library and the Hazelwood School District that was developed to address the problem of “summer slide”, the decline in children’s reading skills over the summer.  Once a week from June 11 through July 23, two Sweet Reads vans visited four locations within the neighborhoods in Spanish Lake that feed into Twillman and Larimore Elementary schools. Donated and discarded items were used and checked out on the honor system so that even those without library cards could take part.  The vans carried materials for teens and adults although the main emphasis was on supplying books to elementary age children.  Participants also were able to sign up for the Summer Reading Club (SRC).  Hazelwood School District helped to promote the program and will offer a special reward to children who complete the SRC.  The service was enthusiastically received and garnered good media attention.  731 SRC registrations were gathered and 2,708 books checked out between June 11 and July 16.  The Sweet Reads service will be offered again next year.
		Ms. Brain also reported that the July 25 ribbon cutting event to celebrate the Prairie Commons Community Garden was a great success.  She gave special thanks to Dr. Tai and Mrs. Kenyon for their attendance and showed a slide presentation of photographs from the event.  The Prairie Commons Community Garden was installed in March this year and is the Library’s first collaboration with Gateway Greening.  SLCL and Gateway Greening held a meeting at the Cliff Cave Branch on July 17 to begin the planning process for installation of a second community garden at that location in spring 2014.
		Shared Services Agreement
		Barbara Turkington recommended that the Board approve the annual Shared Services Agreement between the Library and the Library Foundation.  The Shared Services Agreement was prepared in 2011 as part of the process of requesting a change in the tax status of the Foundation by the IRS.  The current agreement is due to expire on July 31, 2013.
		The Library Board approved the Shared Services Agreement.   (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Board Ethics Policy
		According to the Missouri State Statutes, the Library Board must approve a “Code of Ethics” policy statement every two years.  The approved policy must be sent to the Missouri Ethics Commission within 10 days of its adoption.  The Library Board approved the Code of Ethics policy (Sachs/Cunnane).
		Pension Board Appointment
		The Library Board President currently serves as Vice President of the Library Pension Board.  Dr. Beckwith’s preference is to no longer serve on the Pension Board so he may dedicate more time to the Library Board.  It was recommended that Elena Kenyon replace Dr. Beckwith as the second Library Board appointed member to the Pension Board.  Mrs. Kenyon will serve on the Pension Board with Steve Sachs.  The Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
		Environmental Assessment Services
		The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select Geotechnology to provide environmental assessment services to the Library District. Administrative staff determined that Geotechnology was the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Geotechnology: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed. Local clients include St. Louis Public Library, Webster Groves Public Library and Kirkwood Public Library.  The Board approved the recommendation (Kenyon/Cunnane).
		Property Appraisal Services
		The Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select McReynolds Von Trapp to provide property appraisal services to the Library District. Administrative staff determined that McReynolds Von Trapp was the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select McReynolds Von Trapp: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed. Local clients include Commerce Bank of St. Louis, Dierberg Corporation, Heartland Bank and Webster University.  The Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Shared Services Agreement
		Barbara Turkington recommended that the Board approve the annual Shared Services Agreement between the Library and the Library Foundation.  The Shared Services Agreement was prepared in 2011 as part of the process of requesting a change in the tax status of the Foundation by the IRS.  The current agreement is due to expire on July 31, 2013.
		The Library Board approved the Shared Services Agreement.   (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Public Relations
		Ms. Sorth addressed the Library Board regarding the growth of the district. The Administration recommends that the Library Board waive the Library’s procurement procedures for professional services so we can hire a firm to temporarily assist with the Library’s immediate communication needs at a not to exceed amount of $5,000.  The Board approved the recommendation (Cunnane/Tai).
		Adjourn
		A Motion was made by Dr. Tai to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)); Mrs. Cunnane seconded. All agreed by voice vote.  The Board adjourned at 4:26 p.m.