{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9JWTYA5D10D2",
  "date": "2014-08-18T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, AUGUST 18, 2014
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, August 18, 2014 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	ATTENDANCE:
	Library Board Members:
	Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	Elena Kenyon had an excused absence.
	Administrators and Guests Attending:
	Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Arno Sandoval, KAI; Marcus Moomey, KAI;  Gwen Knight, Colliers; Wendy Timm, Colliers; Gloria Lloyd, Call Newspapers.
	Others Attending:  Steve Hunter, Bobby Jones, Natalia Catlett, Jennifer Ilardi, Sarah Wood, Nicole Clawson, Eric Button, Christina Pryor, Julia Mangner, Rebecca Clarke, Anna Schurk, Paul Bayless, Gina Sheridan, Megan Coyle, LaWanda Jones, Connie Dee, Cynthia Schultz, Anne Arthur, Rachel Nowell, Cindy A. Miller, Donna Spaulding, Kathy Wiese, Aaron Eller, Alaina Culbertson, Michael Cohen, Ty Abbott, Trudy Williams, Crystal A. Harris, Steve Hibbler, Conrad Rader, Julie Cruise, Marie Conlin, Matt Lakin, Mary Arnhart, Anna Strackeljahn, Kris Mooney, Scott Holl, Ed Clark, and Sandy Williams.
	TAX HEARING
	The Library Board voted to adjourn the regular meeting to hold the Tax Hearing (Cunnane/Tai).
	Dr. Beckwith asked if there were any patrons wanting to address the Board regarding the tax rate.  No one came forward to address the Board.
	Dr. Beckwith asked for a motion to adjourn the Tax Hearing and reconvene the regularly scheduled Board meeting (Cunnane/Tai).
	THE REGULAR MEETING RESUMED
	MINUTES
	The Library Board approved the minutes from the July 21, 2014 meeting (Cunnane/Tai).
	PUBLIC COMMENT
	There were no public comments.
	TREASURER’S REPORT
	Kris Mooney reported that the Library District received $3,545 from the Kirkwood Public Library related to the reciprocal borrowing agreements with area municipal Library’s. Total 2014 revenue for reciprocal agreements is expected to exceed $88,000.
	In July, the Library spent $25,151 on programming throughout the District. $6,296 was spent on the Bounce into Summer Reading events held at all locations on June 7th. These expenses were covered by a grant from Citi Global, which also sent 50 volunteers to help staff the events.
	The Library District added a vehicle to the fleet with the purchase of a 2014 Dodge Grand Caravan at a total cost of $11,135. The District traded in the 2007 Dodge Charger and received a credit of $12,500 for the trade in. This purchase was approved by the Board at the April 21, 2014 meeting.
	The Library paid Asphalt Paving & Concrete $26,570 for parking lot repairs at the Samuel C. Sachs Branch. These repairs were approved by the Board at the May 19, 2014 meeting.
	$97,315 was paid to Dell in July for the final purchase of staff computers to complete the Windows 7 upgrades. These purchases were made through various cooperative contracts and were included in the 2014 budget. The District paid $21,748 to TigerDirect for the replacement of older model and/or disabled receipt printers for use by circulation staff at the desk or at self check locations.
	Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
	Mr. Mooney reported that total Construction in Progress for July 2014 was $12,279. The expenses included payments in the amount of $11,619 to KAI architects for services related to the Lewis and Clark Branch and $660 to KAI for services related to the Meramec Valley Branch.
	The Library Board approved the Treasurer’s Report subject to audit (Tai/Sachs).
	DIRECTOR’S REPORT
	Kristen Sorth presented the following report:
	Facilities Master Plan Update
	South County Regional Branch
	The final construction documents for the new South County regional branch library were delivered by Christner on July 1, 2014. The work was organized into 18 separate work packages which were all released for bid on July 8, 2014.  Bids were due July 31, 2014 and opened in a public meeting at Library Headquarters.  Ms. Sorth said that the Library Board would review the bid responses later in the meeting along with several other items related to the new branch.  Construction is planned to begin the week of August 25, 2014.  We will have a ceremonial groundbreaking in September or October.
	Lewis and Clark
	Final construction documents for the new Lewis and Clark Branch were delivered by architects at KAI on August 18, 2014.   Bids will be released and an outreach meeting will take place at Library HQ on August 26, 2014.  Bids are due on September 3, 2014.  The Library Board will review the bid packages at the September Board Meeting and construction will begin the week after that meeting.  Marcus Moomey from KAI will show updated designs for Lewis and Clark later in the Board Meeting.
	Renovations
	Ms. Sorth stated that library staff has been meeting with the architects from Bond to begin design on the renovations in Phase 1.  The focus is on Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Rock Road and Weber Road.  Construction on these four branches will begin at the beginning of 2015.
	Library Update
	·         The August “dashboard” report was shared with the Board. This month’s report includes statistics about circulation, computer usage, visits and the most popular items from our collection.  It also contains information about Sweet Reads and Summer Reading Club.  Total registrations for the Summer Reading Club increased 21% over 2013.  She also said the Baby Club, Teen Club, and Kids Clubs were up by 9%. The Dashboard also shows the St. Louis County Library compared to other large U.S. libraries in 2013.
	·         Ms. Sorth said she was happy to report that several school districts would be rewarded for their high number of completions in the Summer Reading Club program.  The Library Foundation gave money to reward schools with a high percentage of completions. Thirty schools will get an assembly with a performer as a result of their high participation. Those districts with high completions include Riverview Gardens, Jennings, Parkway, Hazelwood, Affton and Clayton.  One school in the Riverview Gardens district had a 100% completion.
	·         The 2014 Library Card Campaign is underway and efforts to register people for cards will continue through the end of October.  The Library staff set a goal of increasing the number of cards issued between August and October 2014 by 25%, roughly an increase of 12,000 cards.  Particular efforts are being focused on schools.  Staff is encouraging schools to have 100% of their students receive a St. Louis County Library card.  The recent purchase of an online card registration module will greatly aid staff and schools in this process.  Applications will be submitted electronically through the Library's web site and cards will be delivered directly to the schools.  During the card campaign, staff will also be making significant efforts to attend outreach events in the community in addition to contacting businesses to encourage their employees to apply for library cards.  The Library will use other strategies to reach those who may not have library cards, including a postcard mailing to more than 10,000 homes in the six zip codes with the lowest percentage of card holders in St. Louis County.  The postcard features a list of eight reasons to get a St. Louis County Library card.   The Library will also use advertising outlets such as print, radio, and social media to help spread the word.  The postcard was presented to the Board.
	·         Operation Food Search has expressed interest in expanding our partnership to include after school snacks.  Operation Food Search has never participated in an after school snack program and will be applying for federal funds.  The snacks will be provided at the Library’s after school program at the Rock Road Branch starting on August 18, 2014.
	·         The Library will be adding items to our eBook collection from publisher Simon and Schuster.  This will greatly expand the amount of eBook titles that are available to Library patrons for download to their personal electronic devices.  We now offer eBook titles from all of the big five publishers.  There was a recent article in the Wall Street Journal about libraries and eBooks.  The article was presented to the Board.
	·         Ms. Sorth announced that the Library has partnered with the Red Cross to offer blood drives this summer at many of our branches and HQ.  During June, July and the first couple of weeks of August, 120 units of blood were collected at Library sponsored blood drives.  In December, we will announce our official partnership with the Red Cross that will begin in 2015.
	·         Nicole Clawson and Sarah Wood from Youth Services, Eric Button and Ms. Sorth met with representatives from the St. Louis Shakespeare Festival to discuss a partnership and future programming ideas.  The Shakespeare Festival will have a street performance in Clayton very near the Mid County Branch and we discussed the Library’s potential role in that event.
	·         St. Louis County Library was recognized in the Go! List in the St. Louis Post Dispatch.  We were recognized by the readers as having the Best Children’s Book Events. The article was presented to the Board.
	·         Ms. Sorth was pleased that St. Louis County Library received a couple of mentions in the most recent Missouri Library Association newsletter.  The article was presented to the Board.
	·         Ms. Sorth stated that a reporter from KWMU was interested in the Sweet Reads program and rode along with staff to do research on the story.  The article was presented to the Board.
	Library Employee Update
	·         Ms. Sorth presented the Board with an updated list of Branch Managers and Assistant Managers.
	·         She also discussed and distributed the 2015 Library Holiday Schedule.
	·         She reported that the strategic planning process is going well.  Based on the patron and employee survey results, we have identified three areas of focus for the Strategic Plan: Literacy for all Residents, Improved Social Connectedness and a Strengthened Sense of Community and Neighborhood.  Library Managers and Assistant Managers will be meeting one day a week for the next three weeks to work on the plan.  The Library Board will review the plan in October.
	·         Ms. Sorth announced that Scott Holl from Special Collections received a Certificate of Appreciation from the Missouri State Genealogical Association.  He was presented the award on August 2, 2014 in Columbia.
	·         Ms. Sorth reported that she will begin making weekly branch visits starting this month.  She will visit one branch a week on Wednesday afternoon.  She left the agenda of the visit up to the branch staff but has asked for time to meet with Library employees.
	Library Facility Update
	·         The sealing and striping at the branches is complete and according to bid specifications after much intervention on the part of Library staff.
	·         The upgrade and repairs to the automatic doors at Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Mid-County, Oak Bend, Prairie Commons, Sachs and Thornhill branches are in progress and will be finished by the end of the month.
	·         Repairs on the plaza at Natural Bridge to fix issues with the concrete will begin in a couple of weeks.  The concrete has settled causing cracks that present a trip hazard.
	Author Events.
	·         Vanessa Davis Griggs, “Ray of Hope,” Saturday, August 23, 2:00 p.m., Natural Bridge Branch.
	·         Local Historian Elizabeth Terry,   "Oysters to Angus: Three Generations of the St. Louis Faust Family", Monday, August 25, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters –Auditorium.
	·          Holocaust Survivor Ben Fainer,   "Silent for Sixty Years: A Memoir", Wednesday, August 27, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Auditorium.
	·         Curtis Sittenfeld, "Prep" and "American Wife", Thursday, September 4, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Auditorium.
	·         We are also pleased to announce that two-term U.S. Poet Laureate Billy Collins will be our guest author on Nov. 1. This is a Headquarters ticketed event.
	Ms. Cunnane congratulated Communications on the new Children’s Library card designs and the Social Media contest to vote for the winner. She was pleased with promotions featuring eight reasons to get a St. Louis County Library card.  She also said she was pleased with the Operation Food Search after school snack program.  At Dr. Beckwith’s request, Ms. Sorth discussed the branch closures and how employees will be temporarily relocated to other branches during the renovations.  She also mentioned that the Library will be posting and distributing information on alternative locations that patrons can use while their regular branches are closed.
	OLD BUSINESS
	None
	NEW BUSINESS
	Branch Outreach
	Jamestown Bluffs Branch Manager Trudy Williams, Daniel Boone Branch Manager Amy Hanaway, and Florissant Valley Branch Youth Services Specialist Jennifer Ilardi gave a Power Point presentation on branch outreach efforts.
	Ms. Williams reported that managers were asked to reach out to their communities through memberships in Chambers of Commerce and community organizations and through participation in after school organizations or clubs, Kiwanis clubs, etc.  Each branch is assigned a service area and staff identifies outreach opportunities within these areas. The relationships developed as a result of outreach activities help connect the Library to the community and assist in promoting programs and special events.  The branches have participated in 896 outreach events so far this year with 69,126 children, teens and adults in attendance. As examples of branch outreach efforts to children and teens, Jennifer Ilardi discussed participation in Girl Scout and Boys Hope Girls Hope events. She also mentioned the book clubs and book talks that raise awareness of Library collections and promote literacy.  Dr. Beckwith thanked them for their presentation.
	Lewis and Clark Design
	KAI project manager, Marcus Moomey, gave a slide presentation on the new Lewis and Clark Branch designs. He stated that the existing branch would be kept open during construction of the new 20,000 sq. ft branch.  Mr. Moomey showed slides of the interior and exterior of the building as well as the floor plan. The branch will be very open with plenty of windows for transparency.  The design features plenty of space for public access computers, a large children’s area, teen and study areas and a business center.  The building will have a variety of seating, comfortable furniture and many electrical outlets. Three of the stained glass windows from the existing building will be included in the new branch.  Discussions have been ongoing with Emil Frei & Associates, the original installer of these windows, concerning their renovation and repair. Dr. Beckwith thanked Mr. Moomey for his presentation.
	Library Board Organization
	Dr. Beckwith stated that the Board By-Laws require voting for officers of the Board each August.  He asked Ms. Sorth to begin the process.
	Ms. Sorth asked for a nomination for Board President.
	Edith Cunnane nominated Dr. Beckwith and Dr. Chingling Tai seconded.   There was a roll call vote and the motion passed unanimously.
	Dr. Beckwith asked for nominations for Vice President of the Board of Trustees.
	Dr.  Chingling Tai nominated Ms. Cunnane, Steve Sachs seconded the motion. There was a roll call vote and the motion passed unanimously.
	Dr. Beckwith asked for nominations for Secretary of the Board of Trustees.
	Mrs. Cunnane nominated Dr. Tai for secretary.  Mr. Sachs seconded.  There was a roll call vote and the motion passed unanimously.
	Dr. Beckwith asked for nominations for Treasurer of the Board of Trustees.
	Edith Cunnane nominated Elena Kenyon for Treasurer of the Board. Dr. Tai seconded. There was a roll call vote and the motion passed unanimously.
	Dr. Beckwith congratulated everyone for being elected to serve as officers for another term.
	Library Board Meeting Dates 2015
	Kristen Sorth presented a recommendation for approval of the following 2015 Library Board meeting dates and locations.
	January 26
	February- no meeting
	March 16
	April 20
	May 18
	June 15
	July 20
	August 17
	September 21
	October 19
	November 16
	December 21
	Unless otherwise stated, all meetings will be held at Headquarters per the Library Board By-Laws and will start at 3:30 p.m. The Tax Hearing is held in August each year.  The Pension Board is scheduled to meet right before the January, March, April, July and October meetings.  The Library Board approved the 2015 Board meeting dates and locations as presented (Cunnane/Tai).
	Diversity Goals - South County Regional Branch
	Ms. Sorth presented information on progress towards the diversity goals for the South County Regional Branch construction project. She explained that 17 work packages would be presented for the Board’s review later in the meeting. The bid process involved a review by the Library, Landmark, S.M. Wilson and Sandra Marks, S.M. Wilson’s Diversity Consultant, as to whether the packages meet the diversity goals of 15% for minority owned businesses and 5% for women owned businesses outlined in the Library’s Diversity Statement. Good faith efforts went beyond those required in the Library’s policy and included advertisements, notifications, conversations, meetings and outreach that began in June and continued to the day of the public bid opening. Ms. Sorth shared a summary of these efforts with Board members along with a letter from S.M. Wilson describing the efforts in more detail.
	The work packages were released on July 8, 2014 with responses due on July 31, 2014. Minority goals were included in those documents. Ms. Sorth provided Board members with a summary of the responses received as well as the minority percentages indicated for each low bidder.  All bidders were required to submit a Good Faith Effort Statement detailing their attempts to include diversity in their proposals, and the Library staff determined that the contractors recommended for approval provided sufficient documentation of Good Faith Efforts.  Ms. Sorth also provided the Board with an analysis of the bids detailing the total construction amount for each work package as well as the percent and the amount of construction dollars paid to a minority or woman owned business for each work package.
	The total percent of construction awarded to minority owned businesses is 5.2% and the total amount for women owned businesses is 7.3%. While the goal for women owned businesses was exceeded, the goal for minority owned businesses was not reached. Ms. Sorth stated that the Administration is disappointed by the percentage but found that a significant Good Faith Effort was made by all involved to encourage minority participation on this project.
	Ms. Sorth stated that she, Dr. Beckwith and Steve Hunter have attended several meetings to discuss the diversity goals. The Library, Landmark and S.M. Wilson will continue to emphasize the Library’s Diversity Statement and will monitor and encourage minority workforce participation which goes above and beyond the requirements of the Library’s policy on this and all future projects.
	Dr. Beckwith expressed his disappointment with the percentage and said he would continue to speak about this topic.
	Contracts for Construction and Contingency of New South County Branch
	Steve Hunter, the Library’s Construction Manager, recommended that the Board approve the lowest and best bid on 17 work packets for the new South County branch library. Mr. Hunter said that final construction documents were delivered by Christner on July 1, 2014. The work was organized into 18 separate work packages, which were released for bid on July 8, 2014. Bids were due July 31, 2014 and opened in a public meeting at Library Headquarters. Adequate responses were received for 17 of the 18 work packages. A qualified response for Work Package #17 – Landscaping was not received and a recommendation on this will be made to the Board at a future meeting.
	Mr. Hunter presented the responses for each individual work package for the Board’s approval.  He also explained that there would be a separate recommendation for project contingency.
	Work Package #1 – Cast-in-place Concrete
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Vee Jay at $579,910 (Tai/Sachs).
	Work Package #2 – Masonry
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from John J Smith at $357,581 (Cunnane/Sachs)
	Work Package #3 – Structural Steel
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Kupferer Brothers at $1,576,178 (Sachs/Tai).
	Work Package #4 – General Works
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Rhodey at $1,443,880 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #5 – Roofing
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Midwest Service Group at $246,000 (Sachs/Tai).
	Work Package #6 – Sheet Metal
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Hyde Sheet Metal at $269,500 (Cunnane/Sachs).
	Work Package #7 – Glass and Glazing
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Missouri Valley Glass at $603,320 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #8 – Drywall, Framing, Fireproofing, Insulation, EIFS
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from the George Weis Company at $626,900 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #9 – Tile & Flooring
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Flooring Systems, Inc. at $227,006 (Sachs/Tai).
	Work Package #10 – Painting
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dannix at $94,006 (Cunnane/Sachs).
	Work Package #11 – Elevators
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Kone at $75,448 (Sachs/Tai).
	Work Package #12 – Fire Suppression
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Gateway at $123,382 (Tai/Cunnane)
	Work Package #13 – Plumbing
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Eagle Plumbing at $300,000 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #14 – HVAC
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Hayes at $1,189,898 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #15 – Electric
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Briner at $1,345,030 (Sachs/Tai).
	Work Package #16 – Earthwork, Utilities, Retaining Walls
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Castle at $336,600 (Tai/Sachs).
	Work Package #18 – Asphaltic Paving
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Byrne & Jones at $199,000 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Contingency
	Mr. Hunter requested the Board’s approval of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $479,061. The contingency fund total includes an estimated amount of $79,061 for Building & Fire Department Permits, an estimated amount of $60,000 for Ameren UE to relocate the primary feed and $340,000 for unforeseen conditions, design errors and owner requested changes. The spending of this contingency fund would be approved by Kristen Sorth, Library Director or Steve Hunter, Construction Manager as needed during the execution of the project. The accounting of the expenditures against the contingency fund will be reported back to
	the Library Board each month.
	The Library Board approved a project contingency fund totaling $479,061 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Second Amendment to Facilities Master Plan Construction Management Agreement
	Steve Hunter stated that clarifications in the work scope of the Facilities Master Plan have necessitated an amendment to the Construction Management Services Agreement between the Library and S.M. Wilson.
	The Second Amendment to the Agreement, drafted by attorneys at Lashly & Baer, was presented to Board members.  It provides for clean-up and dumpsters for the construction projects at the new South County regional branch and the Lewis & Clark branch. Missouri state law allows the Construction Manager to perform construction clean-up on projects the Construction
	Manager is overseeing (RSMo 8.683).
	Due to this change in scope for these two projects, S.M. Wilson is entitled to $249,224 in additional compensation for Construction Management Services. Their total compensation is adjusted to a not-to-exceed amount of $2,933,473.
	The Library Board approved the Second Amendment to the Facilities Master Plan Construction Management Services Agreement (Cunnane/Tai).
	South County Regional Branch Name
	As the start of construction on the new South County regional branch is approaching, Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation on a name for the new facility.
	The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation, in accordance with the Library’s Naming Policy, to select the name Grant’s View for the new South County regional branch located at Musick Avenue and Gravois Road overlooking Grant’s Farm, (Sachs/Cunnane).
	Engineering Testing Services
	Steve Hunter presented a recommendation on the selection of a firm to provide engineering testing services to the Library District.
	Attorneys at Lashly Baer assisted in the development of the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) and provided guidance during the process. The RFQ was issued on July 23, 2014 with responses due August 6, 2014. Five firms responded. Mr. Hunter and representatives from Landmark independently reviewed and ranked the proposals in accordance with Missouri State Statutes and the Library District’s Policy 11 for Professional Services.
	The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the selection of Geotechnology to provide engineering testing services to the Library District at a cost of $39,500. (Sachs/Tai).
	Naming Rights for the Reading Garden at the Sachs Branch
	Barbara Turkington presented a recommendation for approval of naming rights for the Reading Garden at the Sachs Branch.  The two major donors to the Reading Garden, Ms. Susan Nagarkatti and Monsanto Co., have agreed to share naming rights to the Reading Garden to be constructed on land donated to the Library by the Sachs family when the Sachs Branch was constructed. Susan Nagarkatti wishes to name the Reading Garden in memory of her late husband, Jai Nagarkatti, a highly respected business leader and former President and CEO of Sigma-Aldrich Corp. Monsanto wishes to place the company name on the Garden.
	The Library Board approved the recommendation of the Library Administration and the Library Foundation to name the Reading Garden the Jai Nagarkatti-Monsanto Co. Reading Garden. (Cunnane/Tai).
	Presentation of the Proposed Design and Budget for the Sachs Branch Reading Garden
	Barbara Turkington presented a proposed design and budget for the Sachs Reading Garden. She explained that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Library and the Foundation states that the Foundation will submit the designs, plans and budget to the Library Board for review and approval.  Both the budget and the design were shown to the Board.
	The Library Board accepted the recommendation of the Library Administration and the Library Foundation to approve the Reading Garden design and budget. Cunnane/Tai).  Steve Sachs abstained.
	Groundskeeping
	Eric Button presented a recommendation to select a grounds maintenance service for the Library District.
	The Library’s current contract for grounds maintenance service expires in September 2014. An Invitation for Bids (IFB) was issued on July 7, 2014 for a three-year contract for grounds maintenance services at nineteen locations, including all St. Louis County Library (SLCL) locations except Meramec Valley Branch. Invitations were sent to eight companies and an ad was placed in the Post-Dispatch. Five responses were received.
	The Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to select the lowest and best bid from Loyet Landscaping Maintenance at a cost of $103,302 annually for a period of three years. This budgeted expense will be deducted from the Building Operation budget. (Sachs/Cunnane).
	ADJOURN
	The Library Board approved the motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2) (Sachs/Cunnane).  All approved by voice vote.  Cunnane, Aye; Tai, Aye; Sachs, Aye and Beckwith, Aye  Meeting adjourned at 5:22 p.m.
	Respectfully submitted,
	___________________________                              __________________________
	Chingling Tai, Secretary                                             Date