{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9FDLSF56A5BF",
  "date": "2014-04-21T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, APRIL 21, 2014
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 21, 2014
		at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		ATTENDANCE:
		Library Board Members:
		Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President - via telephone
		Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director of Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Michael Allen, Modern STL; Lindsey Derrington, Modern STL; Gloria Lloyd, Call Newspapers; Eric Svoboda, Modern, STL; Carole Weusthoff; Jen Svoboda, Modern STL; Neil Chace, Modern STL; Mick Weber, Hobon Arch; Andrew Raimist, Modern STL; Mary Brunstrom; Gene Mackey, Mackey Mitchell; Cathleen Horst, Project, Inc.; John Guenther, Architect;  SAH STL Chapter; Joe Passanise; Quinta Scott, photographer; Donna Hill; George Nikolajerron, Colliers; Gwen Knight, Colliers; Wayne Weusthoff; Jon Boesch, County Executive Representative; and Mike Rea, Rainbow Village.
		Others attending:
		Kimberly Clark, Tracy Fletcher, Connie Dee, Dorothy Wobbe, Julie Cruise, Stacy Berger, Marsha Ramey, Nicole Clawson, Aaron Eller, Cindy A. Miller, Rachel Nowell, Conrad Rader, Steve Hunter, Marie Conlin, Chauncey Felder, Kathy Wiese, Jennifer McBride, Steve Hibbler, Roz Kohen, Anna Strackeljahn, Cindy Schultz, Lisa Haddox, Kris Mooney, Alison Schnettgoecke, Mary Arnhart, Amy Hanaway, Christina Pryor, Trudy Williams, Stephanie Nordmann, Barb Reale, Paul Bayless, Colleen Hall, Jennifer Alexander, Susan Bushnell, Bobby Jones, Lori Boschert, Keir Haug, Megan Coyle, Darryl Wallace, Cheri Remington, Sarah Wood, Natalia Catlett, Matt Lakin, Carrie Robb, Laura Kasak, Ed Clark, Emily Althoff, Alaina Culbertson, Michael Cohen, Jennifer Jung, Parkie Peck, Julia Mangner and Donna Spalding.
		MINUTES
		The Library Board approved the April 21, 2014 minutes (Sachs/ Kenyon).
		PUBLIC COMMENT
		John Guenther, Carole Weusthoff, Andrew Raimist, and Quinta Dunn Scott urged the Library Board to reconsider its decision to demolish the existing Lewis & Clark Branch and build a new one.  They asked that the Board expand the current building instead.
		Joe Passanissi, stated that he was unhappy with the way the decision to relocate the Tesson Ferry Branch was handled and that patrons should have had an opportunity to comment on the plan.
		Donna Hill, said that she was confident that the Library Board chose the best option when it decided to relocate the Tesson Ferry Branch to the Musick and Gravois site.  She thanked the Board for serving all south county residents.
		TREASURER'S REPORT
		Kris Mooney reported that in March, the Library District received $71,820 for the storm damage repairs at the Oak Bend Branch.
		The Library District made the annual contribution to the Library’s Employee Pension Plan. The contributed amount of $1,625,000 was approved by the Library Board at the March, 2014 meeting.
		The Library District spent $106,836 for books to be used as prizes for baby, kids, and teen Summer Reading Clubs.
		The Library District paid $73,147 in roof repairs at the Oak Bend branch due to storm damage.   The cost was covered by insurance proceeds.
		Three snow storms in February that required parking lots to be cleared and salted resulted in a $26,078 payment in March.
		The Library District spent $75,770 for new computers for staff throughout the Library District. These purchases were made in the Library’s continuing effort to upgrade all computers to Windows 7 since Microsoft is discontinuing their support of Windows XP. These purchases were made through various cooperative contracts, and were included in the 2014 budget. Public computers were the priority and were recently upgraded in 2013.
		The Library District transferred funds to BOKF, the trustee of our Certificate of Participation funds, to pay our annual principal payment of $1,640,000 and the April interest payment of $1,841,892. These payments were made by our trustee on April 1, 2014.
		Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
		Total Construction in Progress for the month of March was $239,859. The expenses included payments for Architects fees in the amount of $166,900, legal fees in the amount of $29,424 and services of our Facilities Master Plan Administrator of $43,535.
		Capital Projects Fund Statement of Revenue and Expenses
		In March, the Library District spent $21,699 in Architect fees, $20,714 in Legal fees, and $7,255 in fees to our Facilities Master Plan Administrator for services performed in relation to the proposed new Meramec Valley Branch in Fenton.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer’s report subject to audit (Tai/Cunnane).
		DIRECTOR’S REPORT
		Ms. Sorth gave the following report.
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		South County Regional Branch
		The architects are finalizing the design work on the South County Regional Branch.  We are currently working with Christner to select the furniture, fixtures and equipment for the branch.   The next step will be the development of the bid packages.  SM Wilson, the Library’s Construction Manager, will assist with that process.
		Lewis and Clark
		The Lewis and Clark project has moved in to the next phase of design.  Members of the Administration, Facilities, branches and Landmark have been meeting with the Library’s architects, KAI.  We will begin work on the selection of furniture, fixtures and equipment for the branch.
		Library Update
		·         The “dashboard” report for April contains circulation, computer use, programming and visit statistics.  It also has information on the most popular items in our collection.
		·         Ms. Sorth reported that the library has received several recent grant notifications.  She congratulated Marie Conlin, the Library’s Planner, for writing and submitting these grants.
		o   We were notified in early January that the St. Louis County Library Foundation was awarded a grant from the Norman J. Stupp Foundation.  We received a first-time grant of $5,000 to assist the library in the expansion of the Sweet Reads project in Spanish Lake.  The money will be used to aid in the purchase of materials for a circulating collection of children’s books.
		o   In late January, we were notified that we were awarded a Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Summer Reading Program Grant through the Missouri State Library to fund two videos to promote our Summer Reading Clubs, one for children and one for teens.  The grant award was for $13,000.
		o   On April 15, we were notified that the St. Louis County Health Department awarded us a Waste Reduction Grant (pending County Council approval).  This grant will fund the replacement of 21 public drinking fountains with drinking fountain/bottle filling station combinations.  Refilling water bottles using the bottle filling stations should save approximately 8.5 tons of waste from the landfill each year.  We requested $36,379.
		o   On April 16, we were notified that we were awarded a Spotlight on Literacy Grant, another LSTA grant from the Missouri State Library.  The award was $12,216 to be used to purchase 20 iPads for use in District-wide story times.  We will partner with Parents as Teachers to provide outreach to local parents in demonstrating the best use of new technologies in teaching literacy skills to their children.
		·         The Library has issued an RFQ for services related to the development of Physical Way Finding in the branches.  The company selected will assist in the development of a cohesive, interior way-finding package at the new facilities as well as at existing branches.  Interior physical way-finding solutions can include: library layout and fixturing, merchandising and permanent display of the collection, permanent signage, and location/use of promotional materials.
		·         The Library’s ebook checkout and hold limits have been increased from 10 to 20 per patron.  This will give patrons the ability to download a larger selection at one time.
		·         A system wide Library Card Campaign is planned for August through October of this year.  During that time, staff will be putting concerted effort into reaching additional customers that may not otherwise be aware of the variety of services that are available to them with a library card.  Staff will focus on reaching customers through schools, businesses, and community events to further the proliferation of library card holders throughout our service area. During the months of August, September and October this year, we hope to issue 25% more cards than had been issued for the same time period in 2013.  In August, September and October of 2013, 9600 new cards were issued.  Our goal is to exceed 12,000 new cards during that same time period in 2014.  The Library Board will review a request to purchase Online Patron Registration software later in the meeting to assist with this effort.
		·         The St. Louis Symphony has agreed to do a performance on November 10, 2014, in honor of the 15th Anniversary of the St. Louis County Library Foundation.  The live performance will include Billyo O'Donnell, renowned landscape artist/painter, who will paint the Symphony while they perform.  Billyo's work will be projected on large screens on either side of the Symphony.  The audience will be able to watch the painting as it is created during the performance.  At the end of the evening, his work will be unveiled. The Library Administration is recommending that the Headquarters branch close early on that evening to accommodate the event.  The Board approved the request (Tai/Kenyon).
		·         The Special Collections Department is being awarded the St. Louis Genealogical Society’s Special Award on April 26 at their Annual Family History Conference.  The letter is attached.
		·         The Summer Reading Club kicks off on May 12.  As mentioned earlier, the Library was awarded a grant to fund two promotional videos about the Summer Reading Club.  In addition, the St. Louis County Library Foundation is funding the purchase of billboards that will be featured in seven locations around St. Louis County promoting the Club.  This year, we are offering an incentive to elementary schools to encourage students to continue reading throughout the summer and to complete the Summer Reading Club.  Any elementary school in our service area with 50% of their student enrollment completing the Summer Reading Club or having one of the highest completion rates in the area will receive a performer paid for with a donation from the Foundation for an assembly to celebrate their summer reading accomplishments.  A video presentation was shown of the Summer Reading Club billboards.
		·         Plans are progressing on the Foundation’s Sachs Reading Garden project.  Negotiations are underway with an architect.  The Foundation has launched a new initiative.  The Foundation will provide grants to library branches and departments. The grants program is designed to stimulate and foster creative ideas and support innovative programs and projects that further the Library’s mission in serving the community.
		·         A group of Eureka residents banded together several years ago, under the name of the "Eureka Project," to raise money to enhance the Eureka Hills Branch.  Their investments into the branch are all nearly complete including the installation of an integrated audiovisual system in the meeting room, expanded electrical outlets, an art hanging system, a color copier/scanner, and an original 6-panel painting by Eureka artist Steve Grzyb, which will be unveiled at an upcoming event.  The contributions of the Eureka Project will be highlighted and recognized in an open house for the community on Saturday, April 26 at 10:00 a.m.
		Library Employee Update
		·         Ms. Sorth introduced new internal Construction Manager Steve Hunter.  Today is his first day.
		·         Vector Communications has conducted strategic planning focus groups with Library employees, Library patrons and community groups.   A patron survey was also conducted with more than 1200 responses.  Vector is currently analyzing the information and will be preparing a report for the Library that will be used to develop the new Strategic Plan.
		·         I mentioned several months ago that the Library would be conducting a recycling pilot.   On April 1, all staff in Administration, HR and Finance at Headquarters began the pilot.   Blue recycling bins were placed in each office/cubical and individual trash containers were removed.  A central trash container is housed in the copy machine room for items that cannot be recycled. We hope that this will increase the amount of material we recycle.
		Library Facility Update
		·         We have the report back from KJWW on the settling at Cliff Cave.  The report states that this may be caused by seasonal changes in the moisture content of the soil or temperature related expansion and contraction.   A geotechnical survey was also performed and found no evidence of sinkhole activity on the site.  The report contained several recommendations.
		·         Inspections of the Library branches with older roofs are currently taking place.
		·         During the power outages in February, the emergency lights at HQ did not come on.  We have determined that a malfunctioning relay on the transfer switch was responsible.  That part has been replaced.
		·         The fire alarm panel at Prairie Commons needs replacing due to age.  We can no longer get parts for the panel.  The panel will be replaced by the end of April.
		Author Events
		There are several notable author events in April and May.
		·         Joe Edwards, “St. Louis Walk of Fame: 140 Great St. Louisans” Tuesday, April 29, 2014, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		·         Nathaniel Philbrick, National Book Award-Winning Historian, “Bunker Hill:  A City, A Siege, A Revolution”, Wednesday, April 30, 7: 00 p.m., Library Headquarters- Auditorium
		·         Howard Willens, Former Warren Commission Supervisory Staff Member, Author of "History Will Prove Us Right: Inside the Warren Commission Report on the Assassination of John F.                                   Kennedy", Monday, May 5, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		·         Ace Atkins, Author of “Robert B. Parker’s Cheap Shot”, Wednesday, May 7, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters-Auditorium
		·         Kate Christensen, Author of "Blue Plate Special: An Autobiography of My Appetites", Thursday, May 8, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		·         Elaine Viets, Former St. Louisan and queen of humorous suspense is Author of “Catnapped!:  A Dead End Job Mystery”, Monday, May 12, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters -                                    Auditorium
		·         Cynthia Bond, Author of the acclaimed debut novel "Ruby," Thursday, May 15, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		OLD BUSINESS
		NONE
		NEW BUSINESS
		Bridgeton Trails Branch Manager, Roz Kohen gave a Power Point presentation on Warm Up America, a nationwide charity in which knitters and crocheters donate handmade afghans and other items to people in need.  Ms. Kohen described the growth of the Library’s participation in Warm Up America from 2008 when five branches hosted programs that produced 52 items to 2014 when all locations participated and 2,165 items were collected. Dr. Beckwith congratulated Ms. Kohen for her leadership of the project.
		Diversity Report
		The Library Board has requested yearly information on the staff complement at the St. Louis County Library. Ms. Sorth stated that the Board received reports for 2013 and 2014 which include the following.
		1. A report entitled “List of Job Titles by Dept/Branch.”
		2. A one page summary of the above mentioned report that lists the total number of employees as well as percentages.
		3.  A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race.”
		4.  A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race and Gender.”
		5.  A report entitled “St. Louis County Library – List of New Hires by Location.”
		6.  A report entitled “Summary Comparison Percentage Chart.”
		 Dr. Beckwith complimented the Library District on its efforts to increase diversity in its work force and commented that the Library’s staff is now more representative of the population of St. Louis County.
		Summer Reading Club Fines Amnesty
		Eric Button presented a proposal for a fine amnesty program for children and teens registering for the 2014 Summer Reading Club (SRC).  The Library offered a similar amnesty in 2012 and 2013 that opened the door for many children and teens to resume reading and using the library and was extremely well received by the community.
		The Library Board approved an amnesty program with a $10.00 maximum per card for each child or teen that registers for the Summer Reading Club in 2014. Fines may be waived on a juvenile, teen, or adult card. Only overdue fines will be waived, replacement charges for items that were never returned will not be waived (Cunnane/Tai)
		Fleet Vehicle
		Eric Button reported that the demand for library fleet vehicles has grown in recent years due to increased outreach to the community. The Library currently owns a 2007 Dodge Charger that is not flexible enough to meet the needs of staff who rely on fleet vehicles to provide and support library services to the community. The 2014 budget includes the purchase of a new fleet vehicle and the cost of that vehicle will be offset by the trade- in value of the 2007 Dodge Charger.
		An Invitation for Bid (IFB) for a 2014 Dodge Grand Caravan was originally issued on December 9, 2013. Only one response was received and no action was taken. A second IFB for the same vehicle was issued on March 18, 2014 and Library staff contacted a number of dealerships to encourage additional responses. Despite these efforts, only one response was received. Legal counsel advised Administration to open the bid and consider the price offered. Library staff determined that the bid response was a fair price, and it was under the budgeted amount for this vehicle. The price below includes a credit of $12,500 for the trade-in of the 2007 Dodge Charger.
		The Library Board approved the bid from Lou Fusz Dodge at a cost of $11,135 (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		Headquarters Lighting Equipment
		Mr. Button reported that the Library has been in the process of upgrading lighting fixtures throughout the District from the older T-12 bulbs to newer, more efficient T-8 bulbs. All branches have been upgraded, but a significant portion of the public space at Headquarters is yet to be completed. Library staff will perform the labor to replace old ballasts and bulbs with the new ones, but an order must be placed to acquire the parts needed.
		An Invitation for Bid was issued on March 18, 2014 and three responses were received. The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Western Extralite Company at a cost of $13,935.20. The Library budgeted $15,000 in the 2014 Building Repair budget for this project (Kenyon/Sachs).
		New Work Trucks
		Mr. Button stated that several of the vehicles used by Facilities staff and for delivery were in need of replacement due to high mileage. Staff issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) on March 18, 2014, followed up by an amendment issued on April 2, 2014. The Library sought bids for one (1) full size commercial cutaway chassis vehicle and two (2) one ton 3500 or 350 series SRW trucks upfitted with a Knapheide service body. The Library also offered trade-in of three older vehicles. Bids were received from four dealerships for the purchase of three new vehicles as well as credits for the trade-in value of the three older vehicles.
		The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dave Sinclair Ford at a cost of $99,948. The Library budgeted $105,000 in the 2014 Automotive budget for this project (Sachs/Tai).
		Online Patron Registration Software
		The Library’s System Administration Manager, Stephanie Nordmann presented a proposal to purchase Online Patron Registration software from Integrated Library System (ILS) Vendor, Innovative Interfaces.  Innovative is the single-source for this software.  Ms. Nordmann explained that the software will make it possible for patrons to register themselves as library users and obtain a temporary barcode that can be used for limited access, according to parameters set by the library.
		The Library Board approved the purchase of Online Patron Registration Software from Innovative Interfaces for the cost of $11,500. This expense will come out of the 2014 ITS budget. (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Art Acquisition Policy
		Ms. Sorth presented a proposal to adopt an Art Acquisition Policy.  She explained that, up to now, the Library District has made limited acquisitions of art through purchases and donations but the new building projects and renovations would likely benefit from the inclusion of art. A review was made of several other libraries’ art acquisition policies, and a draft of a policy was created. The draft was reviewed by Lashly Baer and edits were made.
		The Library Board approved the Art Acquisition Policy as drafted (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Sweet Reads
		Barbara Brain requested that the Board approve purchase of a bookmobile that would be dedicated to offering year round Sweet Reads service in the Spanish Lake area. As reported to the Board in July, 2013, Sweet Reads began last summer as a pilot program in partnership with the Hazelwood School District to help combat “summer slide”, the decline in children’s reading skills over the summer.
		The program was successful with 2,708 books loaned and 731 children registered for the Summer Reading Club and the Library decided to budget for a dedicated Sweet Reads bookmobile so that we could offer an expanded service year round to this underserved part of the Library District.
		An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was issued on February 21, 2014 and five responses were received.
		The Library Board approved the selection of OBS Specialty Vehicles at a cost of $135,445. The Library included $150,000 in the 2014 budget for the purchase of a bookmobile for this service (Kenyon/Cunnane).
		Real Estate Brokerage Services
		Kristen Sorth reported that in March of 2013, the Library selected Colliers International to provide real estate broker services in connection with the District’s Facilities Master Plan. The Agreement with Colliers was approved in April of 2013. Because several Phase 1 projects requiring real estate broker services have moved to Phase 2, we wish to amend the contract with the proposed First Amendment which is attached. A Resolution authorizing the First Amendment is also attached.
		The amendment extends the term of the Agreement until April 21, 2018, allowing Colliers International to provide real estate broker services in Phase 2 of the Facilities Plan. It also changes the amount of Professional Liability Insurance that Colliers is required to maintain from $5,000,000 to $2,000,000 which is more in line with the industry standard.
		The Library Board approved the Resolution for the First Amendment to the Exclusive Real Estate Brokerage Services Representation Agreement with Colliers International (Tai/Cunnane). Steve Sachs voted nay.
		Adjourn
		There was a motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene an Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2));(Cunnane/Tai). The meeting adjourned at 4:55 p.m.
		Cunnane, yes; Tai, yes; Kenyon, yes; Sachs, yes and Beckwith, yes.
		Respectfully submitted,
		_____________________________              _____________________
		Chingling Tai, Secretary                                             Date