{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9FDL58544549",
  "date": "2014-03-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2014
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at
		Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, March 17, 2014
		at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours
		before the meeting.
		ATTENDANCE:
		Library Board Members:
		 Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		 Edith Cunnane, Vice President via telephone
		 Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		 Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and
		Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Director of Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; John Fox Arnold, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Michael Allen, Modern STL; Carl Riesinger, Mary Brunstrom, Angie Tiff, Carol Hamilton, Milton Rudi, Ron Emmenegger, Joyce Conway, Wendell Smith, Kira Svododa, Modern STL; Evan Sroboda, Modern STL; Eric Svoboda, Modern STL; Peter Ruger, St. Louis Co. Historic Bldgs Comm; Andrew Raimist, Modern STL; Susanne Zorn, Richard R. Cerutza, KEB; Gina Cochron, KEB; Allen Mueller, Paul Stackle, Ann Ludlow, Mary E, Pitcher, Tony Pousosa, Carole Weusthoff, Terry Perkins, St. Louis Public Radio; Promod Kumar, KAI; Jan Angh, Historic Preservationist; Ted Zorn, Neil Chace, resident; Esley Hamilton, St. Louis County Parks; Randy Vines, Lanumaries Assn of STL; Jonathan Snyder, Lanumaries Assn of STL; Geoff Beal, Lanumaries Assn. of STL; Jeff Vines, STL-Style.com; John C. Guenther, Architect Society of Architectural Historians STL Chapter; Todd Hornburg, Landmark; Mrs. Jane P. Gleason, St. Louis County His. Bldg. Comm; Jeremy Clagett, Designer; Tom Gassaway, A.J. Gallagher; Becky Bedum, Collier; Jerry Brunstrom, Mary Bowyer, Michael Broughton, Myrna Bell, Wayne Weusthoff, Karen Busch, Mary Meyers, Steve Hunter, and Scott Kolath, Landmark.
		Others attending:
		Mary Arnhart, Rachel Nowell, Kimberly Clark, Laura Kasak, Kris Mooney, Jennifer Alexander, Trudy Williams, Julie Cruise, Steve Hibbler, Megan Coyle, Donna Spaulding, Nicole Clawson, Paul Bayless, Barb Reale, Dottie Wobbe, Lucy Kleinsurge, Carl Kleinsurge, Cynthia Schultz, Michael Cohen, Darryl Wallace, Cindy A. Miller Christel Maassen, Anne Arthur, Anna Strackeljahn, Sara Wood, Natalia Catlett, Marie Conlin, Roz Kohen, Cheri Remington, Ed Clark, Aaron Eller, Colleen Hall, Wayne Robinson, Connie Dee, Stephanie Nordmann, Alaina Culbertson, Anna Huckabee, Julia Mangner, Maryann Ryan, Amy Hanaway, Jennifer Jung, Conrad Rader, Matt Lakin, Scott Holl, Joyce Loving, Bobby Jones, Edith Isele, and Parkie Peck.
		Dr. Beckwith opened the meeting by stating that Steve Sachs had an excused absence.
		MINUTES
		The Library Board approved the January 27, 2014 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		The Library Board approved the February 27, 2014 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		PUBLIC COMMENT
		The Library Board received 23 requests from individuals to speak. Dr. Beckwith explained the 3 minute limit per individual and asked that the comments not be redundant.
		Michael Allen; Mary Reid Brunstrom; Neil Chace; and John C. Guenther spoke in favor of renovating rather than replacing the existing Lewis and Clark Branch.
		Tony Pousosa; Ed Ryan; Paul Stackle; Mary Pitcher; Carol Hamilton; and Allen Mueller spoke in opposition to moving the Tesson Ferry Branch to the Musick and Gravois site.
		After the first ten speakers, Dr. Beckwith tabled the Public Comments until after the regular Board agenda.
		Dr. Beckwith stated that each person who filled out a card would receive a response at a later time.
		TREASURER'S REPORT
		Kris Mooney gave the Treasurer’s Reports for January and February 2014.
		In January, the Library District invested operating proceeds with Commerce Bank. The investments consisted of eight $4,000,000 investments in Certificates of Deposit for a total of $32,000,000. The investment plan was approved by the Board at the January, 2014 meeting.
		The Library District received two E-Rate rebates from funding year 2013 for a total of $71,259. The rebates were for maintenance staff phone use and Library use of Google applications.
		The Library District received $29,825 in insurance proceeds from the water damage at Indian Trails. Total cost to fix the damage was $51,176 and the Library District is expecting the final insurance proceeds soon.
		The Library District renewed the annual software maintenance with our Integrated Library System vendor, Innovative Interfaces Incorporated (III), for our Millennium software at a cost of $137,250. This item is included in the 2014 budget.
		The Library District purchased 23 AWE Early Literacy workstations to be installed at all branch locations for a cost of $82,831. This purchase was approved by the Board in November of 2013 and was included in the 2014 budget.
		The Library District purchased the annual maintenance for our RFID equipment for a total cost of $56,822. This item was included in the 2014 budget.
		Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
		Total Construction in Progress for the month of January was $309,277.50. The expenses included payments of $257,567 for Architects fees, payment of $30,047 for legal fees, and payment of $36,190 to our Facilities Master Plan Administrator.
		In February, the Library District received the payment of the annual tax levied on Missouri financial institutions in the amount of $332,779. The Library District will budget this revenue conservatively each year due to the volatility.
		Many of the Library Database subscriptions renew in February. During this month, we incurred $350,522 in database subscription costs. Databases purchased vary significantly, but the most popular purchased this month were for general academic use (student research), newspapers, and genealogy.
		The Library District spent $18,188 in annual maintenance for various copiers, printers, and microfilm readers throughout the Library.
		During January, there were six different major snow events where Library parking lots were cleared and salted resulting in a total payment of $52,639 in February.
		Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
		Total Construction in Progress for the month of February was $34,669. The expenses included were payments for Architects fees.
		The Library District closed on the new Tesson Ferry land and gave consideration of $2,900,000 to purchase.
		The Library Board approved the January and February Treasurer's Reports subject to audit (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		DIRECTOR'S REPORT
		Kristen Sorth gave the following Director’s report.
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		Meramec Valley
		The Board of Aldermen held a public meeting on December 19, 2013 to consider the Planning and Zoning Commission’s recommendation to approve the Library’s Special Use Permit to operate a Public Library at the two properties we were under contract to purchase. The Board of Aldermen conducted two readings of the permit and delayed the third reading until the January 23, 2014 Fenton Board Of Aldermen meeting. As reported in January, that permit was denied. As a result, the Library terminated the purchase agreements for the two pieces of land in Fenton on February 12, 2014. A discussion on the plans for Phase 1 and 2 of construction projects will take place later in this meeting.
		Tesson Ferry
		On February 7, 2014, the Library closed on the purchase of the property for the future site of the Library’s new South County Regional Branch. The Library also entered into an agreement with St. Louis County Highway and Traffic and McBride Berra regarding the improvements to Musick Road. Information on the design of the building will be presented to the Library Board later in the meeting. We plan to break ground on this new branch in late summer.
		Library Update
		 Ms. Sorth reported that the “dashboard” report for March contains circulation, computer use, programming, renewals and Sunday statistics. It also has information on the most popular items in our collection.
		 The Black History Celebration committee held February’s closing event with “Set the Night to Music” a jazz program held at Florissant Valley Branch. In total, there were four major events held including featured speaker Ayana Mathis, author of Twelve Tribes of Hattie; the Black Rep performing Witnesses to Freedom followed by the Antioch Puppet Ministry and the Gift of Gospel celebration. At the completion, dozens of programs that included crafts, movies, book discussion groups, trivia nights, musical groups, story times and more were offered to enthusiastic crowds at all 20 locations. Display cases were decorated and featured at most locations. Evaluation forms were returned with overwhelming positive comments and ratings. Special thanks to the 10 member Black History Celebration committee for great planning and programming, the Facilities department for their set ups and the Communications department for their colorful brochures, posters and advertising. Two final events take place later this year. Jazz singer Ms. Denise Thimes will be at Headquarters for Black Music Month on June 13th
		 at 7:00 p.m. Also, the Library will host an Author/Artist Expo at Florissant Valley on June 7th at 1:00 p.m. with writers, artists, musicians and designers. Ms. Sorth gave a short slide show of pictures highlighting the events.
		 After shifting exclusively to online sales of used books on January 1, 2014, many customers expressed concerns about this change, primarily citing a desire to purchase materials in the library at a lower cost. In response to the significant amount of customer feedback, sale shelves were added back into each SLCL location on March 1, 2014. The sale shelf in the library now complements the availability of materials for sale online through Thrift Books, thus each customer has an option suitable for his or her needs. Sale shelves will be limited in size, and any overflow materials will continue to be sent to Thrift Books for online sale. Customers have been quite pleased to learn about the combined approach to selling surplus materials.
		 The Library’s eMedia site now includes a separate option to find eMedia for children and teens. The site only includes content with juvenile and young adult subjects. The Kids/Teens option will allow kids and teens to browse, sample, place holds and borrow eBooks and other media appropriate for their age range and reading level.
		 The Library’s Winter Reading Club was a huge success. The Library had 60,904 kids, teens and adults sign up for the Winter Reading Club with 18,574 completions. Last year the Library had 24,469 registrations and 10,105 completions.
		 The St. Louis County Library is an official celebration partner with stl250. As you may know, stl250 is the organization celebrating the 250th anniversary of St. Louis. We have 53 programs scheduled throughout the year at all of our branches. We also have the Missouri History Museum’s stl250 traveling exhibit scheduled at six locations. These include Tesson Ferry in April, HQ in August, Rock Road in September, Thornhill in October, Bridgeton Trails in November and Lewis and Clark in December.
		 In a previous Director’s report, Ms. Sorth mentioned that the Youth Services Department was developing Read and Play kits for the children’s areas. Kits are based on book titles or themes and the concept follows the “Every Child Ready to Read 2” skills of talk, play, write, sing and read. The first kit developed is the money kit and the focus is on financial literacy, money identification and counting. I have a sample to show the Library Board. These activities are intended for parent and child interaction while they are at the Library and remain in the children’s areas.
		 The Cliff Cave Community Garden was installed on March 8th. 24 beds were installed. The community garden at Prairie Commons will be expanded from 20 beds to 40 beds on March 15th.There will be pictures for the Library Board later in the spring of the gardens.
		 Barbara Brain and Colleen Hall from the Outreach Department met with the director of the new MET Center in Wellston where a new childcare facility will open this fall. We are planning to send the new Sweet Reads vehicle to this center.
		 There are several Library Foundation updates. The Foundation launched their new website which includes their new logo last week. We have been discussing the possibility of having a Foundation sponsored coffee kiosk at HQ. Discussions with several possible vendors have taken place. The RFQ to select a landscape architect for the Sachs Reading garden has been issued. Responses were due on March 14th.
		The Foundation is working with the St. Louis Rams to sponsor a special Gift of Reading program for Normandy students at Rams Park on May 28th. The date for the Library Gala is set for September 20th.
		Library Employee Update
		 Ms. Sorth reported that she is currently conducting interviews for an internal Construction Manager to assist with the Library’s construction plans. Landmark will be participating in the interviews as well.
		 Vector Communications has conducted strategic planning focus groups with Library employees. Patron and community focus groups are also taking place. Vector has developed a survey for the Library Board to assist in the development of the strategic plan. That survey will be sent to the Board via email in the next week.
		 The St. Louis County Library 2013 Holiday Food Drive resulted in the donation of 7120 pounds of food for Operation Food Search. This, compared to 3423 pounds in 2012, was a huge increase. The thank you letter from Operation Food Search is attached. The Library’s Staff Association organizes this drive.
		 Matt Lakin and Cherise Taylor from the Training Department traveled to Evansville Vanderburgh Public Library on February 26th. The Evansville Library asked them to conduct Train-the-Trainer sessions for 20 of their employees. The two topics for training were how St. Louis County Library trained our employees on Workplace Violence and Dealing with Difficult Customers. Matt and Cherise presented for about 8 hours and answered questions throughout. Evansville Vanderburgh paid for all travel expenses and donated $150 to the St. Louis County Library Foundation.
		Library Facility Update
		 The section of the roof at Oak Bend that failed has been replaced and paid for by insurance proceeds.
		We will be issuing an RFP to select a vendor to replace the rest of the roof.
		 Soil samples have been taken at Cliff Cave to determine the cause of the foundation issues. We should have a report shortly.
		 During the power outages in February, the emergency lights at HQ did not come on. We have determined that a malfunctioning relay on the transfer switch was responsible. The part to replace it is on order.
		 The fire alarm panel at Prairie Commons needs replacing due to age. We can no longer get parts for the panel. Ed Clark is soliciting bids.
		Author Events
		There are several notable author events in March and April.
		March
		 Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, an acclaimed Nigerian writer, and author of “Americanah” was here Tuesday, March 11 at Library Headquarters. It was a great event and 400 people attended.
		 C.J. Box, will present his new book “Stone Cold” on Tuesday, March 18, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters.
		 Joan Barthel, Author of "American Saint: The Life of Elizabeth Seton" is featured Wednesday, March 26, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters - Auditorium.
		April
		 Adam Braun, "The Promise of a Pencil: How an Ordinary Person Can Create Extraordinary Change"
		Tuesday, April 1, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Gail Caldwell, "New Life, No Instructions" will be here Wednesday, April 2, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Acclaimed historian H.W. Brands, "The Man Who Saved the Union: Ulysses Grant in War and Peace"
		Friday, April 4, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room. This is a Read St. Louis 2014 - Distinguished Literary Achievement Selection.
		 Best selling young adult author Brandon Mull, "Sky Raiders: Five Kingdoms Series #1" will be here Friday, April 4, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
		 A Middle Grade Reader Showcase featuring Eoin Colfer, Jonathan Stroud and Ridley Pearson on Saturday, April 5, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room
		 Melissa de la Cruz, "The Ring and the Crown" Monday, April 7, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Peter Stark, author of "Astoria: Astor and Jefferson's Lost Pacific Empire-A Story of Wealth, Ambition, and Survival" Thursday, April 10, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Ron Suskind is author of "Life, Animated: A Story of Sidekicks, Heroes, and Autism" Monday, April 14, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Victorian-era novelist Anne Perry, author of "Death on Blackheath" is coming Wednesday, April 16, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 The Tenth Annual Family Read Night with Lemony Snicket, Author of "File Under: 13 Suspicious Incidents" Saturday, April 19, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room.
		OLD BUSINESS
		None
		NEW BUSINESS
		SOUTH COUNTY BRANCH DESIGN
		Christner architect Robin Ringwald gave a PowerPoint virtual tour of the South County Regional Branch.  Mr. Ringwald showed slides of the interior as well as the exterior of the building and explained the purpose of each space.  He stated that the new library is designed to meet the 21st Century needs of the community.
		STORAGE AREA NETWORK
		Gib Van Cleve gave an informational presentation to the Board concerning the storage area network.  He stated that the purchase of a Storage Area Network (SAN) will allow us to leverage our virtualized server environment and increase our overall storage capacity. ITS reviewed several SAN device offerings and selected Nimble Storage’s CS210 for its ease of configuration and performance capabilities. Nimble’s CS210 will meet the District’s needs for years to come and it can be expanded when more storage space is needed in the future.
		Mr. Van Cleve stated that the administration plans to purchase The Nimble CS210 SAN and three years of support on our WSCA cooperative purchasing agreement from Transource Technologies for $30,830. This purchase is included in the 2014 Library budget.
		PHASE 1 AND 2 OF THE CONSTRUCTION PLAN
		Ms. Sorth announced that the Meramec Valley (MV) project will move to Phase 2 to allow more time to find another site. The Mid-County (MC) project will also move to Phase 2 to allow sufficient time to find another site or investigate the possibility of building on the existing site.  She stated that all 20 of the projects are being scoped and that more information will be brought to the Board regarding which projects will be included in Phases 1 and 2.
		LIBRARY AUDIT
		Rick Gratza of Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) reported to the Board on the 2013 independent Library audit.  The audit includes the operation of the Library Foundation. The firm has issued an unmodified opinion, meaning that the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements. This is also known as a “clean opinion” indicating that the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
		Mr. Gratza stated that the Audit was prepared with no difficulties or disagreements with management and that no internal control weaknesses were found.
		The Library Board approved the acceptance of the independent audit (Cunnane/Kenyon). Copies of the audit will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The audit will also be available on the Library’s website.
		2014 PENSION CONTRIBUTION
		Bill Winningham from Milliman, the Library’s actuary, reported that the Pension Contribution from the Library to the Pension Plan is due each year on March 31. Milliman, has conducted the annual actuarial valuation.
		Milliman is recommending a contribution of $1,546,259. The Library’s 2014 budget for this expense is $1,625,000. The funding ratio of the Pension Plan is 89.08%.
		The Library Board approved the administration’s recommendation and authorized a $1,625,000 contribution to the Pension Plan, an amount in excess of that recommended by the Library District’s Actuaries (Cunnane/Tai).
		INVITATION FOR BID - E-RATE VOICE OVER IP SYSTEM
		The Library District’s current Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) telephone service
		contract with Affiniti LLC (formerly Trillion Partners) expires on June 30, 2014. The VOIP contract qualifies as an E-Rate eligible service in which the Library District receives a rebate on its annual cost of the service. The 2013 rebate was $68,310. Due to the E-Rate eligibility, the Library District must go through an extensive application process which requires many steps, each with an associated deadline.
		The Resolution authorizes the Library Director to execute and deliver on behalf of the District. In doing so, the Library wants to make the Board aware of the approval process administration will undergo to determine the selection. The E-Rate process requires a formal decision making formula. The Library has created an evaluation matrix with a list of several criteria used to determine the vendor. Points are assigned based on importance to each criterion, for a total of 100 points. Each bidder will receive points for each criterion, based on how they rank amongst the other bidders.
		The Library Board approved the resolution to authorize the Director to approve the award of a contract for VOIP telephone system installation and maintenance pursuant to the terms set forth in the resolution and the actions of certain officers of the District (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		INSURANCE RENEWALS
		All lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on April 1. Arthur J. Gallagher Risk Management Services (AJG), the Library’s broker for these services, has received and reviewed the insurance quotes from the Library’s incumbent insurance carriers. These include Firemen’s Fund (National Surety Corp.), Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Endurance American Specialty Insurance and Illinois Union Insurance. The other insurance companies that were contacted could not compete with the renewals from the current carriers.
		The total of the insurance renewals and the broker’s fee ($20,000) is $455,941. The Pension Plan pays for the Fiduciary coverage ($8,454).
		The Library Board approved the recommendation of administration in consultation with Arthur J. Gallagher to accept the renewals from the Library’s current insurance carriers which include Firemen’s Fund (National Surety Corp.), Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Endurance American Specialty Insurance and Illinois Union Insurance plus the broker’s fee for a total cost of $455,941 (Cunnane/Tai).
		EUREKA HILLS ROOF
		Eric Button reported that the Library began leasing a former Blockbuster Video store at 156 Eureka Towne Center in 2011. Since that time the roof has experienced a number of leaks. Despite our best efforts to patch the roof, the leaks have persisted. The exact age of the current roof is unknown due to the fact that our documentation begins at the onset of the lease. The terms of the lease state that the tenant is responsible for maintenance and upkeep of the building including the roof. As such, we found it necessary to seek a full roof replacement on the building.
		An Invitation for Bid was issued on February 20, 2014 and nine responses were received.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation to select the lowest and best bid from
		Frederic Roofing at a cost of $44,706 (Cunnane/Tai). The Library had budgeted $45,000 in the 2014 Building Repair budget for this project.
		FOOD FOR FINES
		Barbara Brain reported on the “Food for Fines” option that the Library has offered for the past fifteen years during National Library Week.
		National Library Week will be celebrated April 13-19 this year and, during that time, the administration recommended that customers be allowed to pay outstanding fines with canned
		goods. The food would then be given to Operation Food Search for distribution to local food pantries.
		“Food for Fines” has generated positive publicity for the Library and also encourages the
		return of overdue items. Last year, the Library collected over 30,000 pounds of food during the week. Customers have been able to exchange one can of food for $1 in fines up to a maximum of $10.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation that the “Food for Fines” option be offered again this year with a $10 maximum per account (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		PUBLIC COMMENTS (RESUMED)
		The following people spoke in favor of renovating rather than replacing the existing Lewis and Clark Branch:
		Jeremy Clagett; Esley Hamilton; Randy Vines; Jeff Vines; Peter Ruger; and Wendell Smith spoke in favor of renovating rather than replacing the existing Lewis and Clark Branch.
		Joyce Connoly; Ron Emmenegger; Milton Rudi; and Mary Ann Ryan speaking for Ann Ludlow spoke in opposition to moving the Tesson Ferry Branch to the Musick and Gravois site.
		ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
		A motion was made by Elena Kenyon to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); legal matters (Section 610.021(1)); and personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)).  Chingling Tai seconded.  All approved by voice vote.
		The meeting adjourned at 5:33 p.m.
		Respectfully submitted,
		_____________________________                                      _____________________
		Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date