{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9JWTZW5D1F42",
  "date": "2014-09-22T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2014
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, September 22, 2014 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	ATTENDANCE:
	Library Board Members:
	Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Steve Sachs, Member
	Elena Kenyon had an excused absence.
	Administrators and Guests Attending:
	Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult & Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Gwen Knight, Colliers; Wendy Timm, Colliers; Gloria Lloyd, Call Newspapers; LaWanda Jones, ABNA; Tom Diggs, Bond Architects; and Beverley Balk, Colliers.
	Others Attending:
	Paul Bayless, Stacy Berger, Rebecca Clarke, Anna Strackeljahn, Ellen Lindberg, Erin Magner, Michael Cohen, Roz Kohen, Maureen Willmann, Hannah Komasinski, Rachel Nowell, Dottie Wobbe, Conrad Rader, Sarah Wood, Steve Hunter, Kathy Wiese, Anna Schurk, Stephanie Nordmann, Bobby Jones, Trudy Williams, Susie Bushnell, Colleen Hall, Scott Holl, Nicole Clawson, Ellen Meschke, Jennifer Alexander, Aaron Eller, Barb Reale, Mary Arnhart, Kris Mooney, Christina Pryor, Donna Spaulding, Anne Arthur, Matt Lakin, Julie Mangner, Megan Coyle, Anna Huckeby, Marsha Ramey, Alaina Culbertson, Crystal Harris, Cindy A. Miller and Sandra J. Williams.
	MINUTES
	The Library Board approved the minutes from the August 18, 2014 meeting (Cunnane/ Tai).
	PUBLIC COMMENT
	There were no public comments.
	TREASURER'S REPORT
	Kris Mooney reported that the District received $23,196 from AT&T in August. This is the first of the E-Rate discount payments the Library District has received for the 2014 fiscal year. The remaining discounts should be received in October and November of 2014 and the total will be close to the budget of $305,000.
	In August, the Library purchased children’s library cards for $6,797 from PSI Graphics and library cards for adults from Rainbow Printing for $6,000. The purchase of these cards will be used for the District’s current campaign to increase Library membership. The campaign will last through the end of October. The District also paid $3,383 to Televend for pre-paid fax cards, which were last purchased in April of 2014. These cards are available for purchase at all locations for use in the fax machines.
	Since the District began leasing the Eureka Hills branch in 2011, the roof of the building has experienced a number of leaks. Replacement of the roof was completed by Frederic Roofing at a cost of $44,706 and was approved by the Board at the March 17, 2014 meeting.
	The Library spent $51,230 for sealing and striping at nine Library branches, including Headquarters, by Asphalt Paving & Concrete. These repairs were approved by the Board at the May 19, 2014 meeting.
	$19,975 was paid to Overhead Door in August for automatic door safety upgrades at seven branches. The Board approved the upgrades at the June 16, 2014 meeting for eight locations. Mid County’s upgrades will be completed and paid in September. Also in August, the District paid $7,630 to H&G Sales Inc. for hardwired units to replace the wireless lock system at Headquarters, which had been failing.
	$34,235 was paid to Cumulus Global in August for Google apps service. The service includes system-wide e-mail and document sharing and storage and is E-rate discount eligible. The District paid $18,228 to Innovative Interfaces for Decision Center, formerly Encore Reporter, which is a statistical reporting tool for Millennium that is renewed annually.
	Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
	Total Construction in Progress for August 2014 was $278,925. The expenses included payments for architects’ fees in the amount of $104,047 to KAI for services related to the new Lewis and Clark Branch, $111,676 to Christner for services related to the new Grant’s View branch, and $63,202 to Bond Architects for services related to the Rock Road, Jamestown Bluffs, Indian Trails, and Weber Road renovations.
	The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sachs/Tai).
	DIRECTOR'S REPORT
	Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
	Facilities Master Plan Update
	Grant’s View
	Preliminary work and mobilization has started at Grant’s View.  A groundbreaking ceremony will take place on Thursday, September 25 at 10:00 a.m.  Invitations have been sent to the Library Board, elected officials, the current staff at Tesson Ferry, construction partners and Library patrons.
	Lewis and Clark
	Final construction documents for the new Lewis and Clark Branch were delivered by architects at KAI on August 15, 2014.   The work was organized into 15 separate work packages which were all released for bid on August 18, 2014.  Bids were due on September 3, 2014 and were opened in a public meeting at Library Headquarters.  The Library Board will review the bid responses later in the meeting along with several other items related to the new branch.  Construction is planned to begin in a couple of weeks.  The current branch will stay open during construction.  We will have a ceremonial groundbreaking in October or early November.
	Renovations – Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Rock Road and Weber Road
	Library staff has been meeting with the architects from Bond to begin design on the renovations in Phase 1.  The focus is on Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Rock Road and Weber Road.  Construction on these four branches will begin in early 2015.  Plans are underway to address moving and storing collections and equipment during these renovations.  Several administrators visited St. Louis Public Library to learn from their experiences during the renovation of Central Library.  Architects from Bond will present preliminary designs later in the meeting.
	Library Update
	·         Ms. Sorth reported that the “dashboard” report for August contains a variety of statistical information for the Library.  A copy was shared with the Board.  This month the report includes statistics about circulation, visits, programming, hourly averages for checked in material and the most popular items from our collection.  It also contains information about the Library Card Campaign as well as our growing social media presence.  She mentioned that July 2014 was the second busiest month in the history of the St. Louis County Library with circulation reaching 1,414,134 items.
	·         The Library’s Facebook and Twitter presence grew significantly during the month of August with information posted about our programming at the Florissant Valley Branch for the students in the Ferguson-Florissant School District.  An article about the program from the Riverfront Times was shared with the Board.  Ms. Sorth also showed several pictures from the week.  She said that branch staff did a fantastic job of planning the daily programs in a short amount of time.  The Library partnered with Operation Food Search and the Magic House during the week to provide free lunches and fun for the kids.  The Library is also partnering with Lutheran Family and Child Services to provide free counseling for youth and teens at the Florissant Valley Branch.  Counselors will be available beginning this week.
	·         Ms. Sorth announced that the Library is establishing a partnership with St. Louis BWorks.  BWorks is a nonprofit organization that promotes confidence and character in children through several innovative educational programs.  Examples include their Bike Works and Byte Works program where kids earn bicycles or computers by completing a course on these topics.  We will be hosting their six week long Earn-A-Computer program in our Rock Road Branch lab for twelve lucky kids starting October 7th.  The six week long evening course will cover topics such as Internet safety, computer programming, and creating and delivering presentations on the PC.  Students that attend all six sessions and meet the participation requirements will receive a complete PC system.  Byte Works is very excited about this partnership as it allows them to move their program in to St. Louis County.  The Foundation awarded the Library a $720 grant to cover the costs for this course.
	·         Barbara Brain, Steve Hunter and Ms. Sorth met with Jean Ponzi from the Missouri Botanical Garden to talk about the St. Louis Green Business Challenge.  The St. Louis Green Business Challenge is presented by the St. Louis Regional Chamber to assist companies, institutions and governments in adopting sustainable practices.  The Library would like to embark on the Apprentice Program that begins later this fall.
	·         The Library is piloting a new early literacy initiative called Born to Read to engage our youngest readers and their parents.  We are partnering with four area hospitals (DePaul, Missouri Baptist, St. Anthony’s and St. Claire) to reach thousands of newborns by introducing them to a lifelong love of books and reading.  The program provides each new family with a gift bag consisting of a book, a bath toy and information on developing reading skills at an early age.  A card is also included in the bag that can be redeemed for a book on the child’s first birthday.  The Foundation has enthusiastically agreed to help sponsor this new program that was announced at the Library’s Gala on Saturday.
	·         The Library’s Special Collections Department has been renamed the History and Genealogy Department to better reflect their collection of materials.  As I mentioned in a previous report, the department has recently acquired genealogy records from Canton Bern, Switzerland. The German and French records, on 847 rolls of high-quality microfilm, feature birth, marriage, and death information from the 16th to 19th centuries.  The original records, held by the State Archives of Bern, offer information difficult to obtain in the U.S.  Purchase of the microfilm set was made possible with funds from the William C.E. and Bessie K. Becker Collection, established in 2014.  The couple’s surviving children and grandchildren made the donation specifically to enhance the library’s genealogical holdings. The Swiss microfilms join other Becker Collection sources for researching German and Irish ancestry.
	·         The St. Louis County Library Foundation is celebrating its 15th anniversary this year. Special events will be scheduled throughout the fall.  On Monday, November 10 at 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters, the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra will give a special free performance captured live on canvas by renowned plein air artist Billyo O'Donnell.
	·         Ms. Sorth announced that the Repertory Theatre of St. Louis is interested in partnering with the Library during their upcoming season.  The Library’s Readers’ Advisory staff will compile reading lists associated with each of the Rep’s shows.  The lists along with a link to the Library’s website will appear on the Repertory Theatre’s website.
	·         Chris Pryor, the Library’s Manager of Reference, has been published in the Journal of Library Administration.  Her article entitled “Mind Your Business: Reaching the Small Business Owner and Entrepreneur through Community Partnerships and Programming” appeared in the May 21, 2014 publication.  A copy of her article was shared.
	·         Ms. Sorth and Eric Button met with St. Louis Astronomical Society.  The Society is undertaking a program to donate telescopes to St. Louis area libraries to be checked out, just like a book.  The Library Telescope Program was designed by the New Hampshire Astronomical Society.  Their program launched in 2008 and now has over 100 participating libraries across the state.  We are very excited to begin this partnership which we plan to pilot this fall.  The Society will donate one telescope to the Library and we plan to purchase nine additional telescopes.  Four telescopes will be available for checkout from HQ, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone and Tesson Ferry.  A fifth telescope will be purchased for Lewis and Clark to remain permanently at that branch.  The children’s space at Lewis and Clark has an astronomical theme on the ceiling.  Five additional telescopes will be used for programming at the branches.
	·         Youth Services is developing a Kindergarten Readiness program series that will launch in early 2015 with a pilot program offered at Florissant Valley Branch.  Programs will be offered weekly for a period of 4-5 weeks for parents with a child who will soon be entering kindergarten.  The Ferguson-Florissant School District has expressed interest in performing kindergarten screenings in conjunction with the library program.
	·         Lynn Hamilton, founder of "Maturity and Its Muse," contacted the Library to explore partnerships.  The organization fosters art participation and expression among older adults.  We are planning several programs for 2015 at Florissant Valley, Bridgeton Trails, Tesson Ferry, Sachs, Daniel Boone and Natural Bridge.  These programs will be geared toward patients with Alzheimer’s living in facilities.  The Library also plans to host programs for caregivers of individuals with Alzheimer’s or other memory loss illnesses.  A series of art programs for seniors is also being planned.
	·         Ms. Sorth reported that she received a very nice letter and a book from Library patron, Bonnie Butler.  A copy of the letter and a picture of the book were shared with the Board.
	·         Ms. Sorth announced that St. Louis County Library was recognized by the Missouri Library Association as the Missouri Library of the Year.  The Library will be recognized at a banquet in October.  She said she was thrilled to receive this honor.  The congratulatory letters and two articles were shared with the Board.
	Library Employee Update
	·         Ms. Sorth said that the Library’s In Service Day will take place on Monday, October 13th.  All Library locations will be closed on that day.
	·         Eric Button and the Branch Managers are working on a staffing plan for 2015 when nine branches will be closed at various times.  Staff will be reassigned to branches near their home branch during the closures.
	·         The Library Board will review the new Strategic Plan at the October Board Meeting.
	·         Ms. Sorth attended the Directors of Large Libraries (DOLL) Meeting in Columbia, Missouri on August 26, 2014.  Directors from Mid Continent Public Library in Kansas City, Springfield-Greene County, St. Charles City-County Library, St. Louis Public Library and Daniel Boone Regional Library in Columbia also attended.
	Library Facility Update
	·         Ms. Sorth reported that repair work on the handrails at HQ has been delayed.  Ed Clark has been contacting the company to get the project started as soon as possible.
	·         Safe Place signs will be installed at each Library location in September.
	·         Hackett Security will begin their work on replacing alarm panels soon.  They will begin at NB and TH, two smaller jobs to test their installation strategy before moving onto larger projects at other branches.
	·         The Loyet grounds keeping contract will be in effect beginning January 1, 2015 and it continues for three years until December 31, 2017.
	·         The Facilities staff was very involved in the planning for the Gala.
	Ms. Sorth announced the following  upcoming author events.
	·         Nancy Horan, “Loving Frank”, Wednesday, September 24, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Mark Whitaker, “Cosby: His Life and Times”, Monday, September 29, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Anthony Marra, “A Constellation of Vital Phenomena”, Friday, October 3, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Lauren Oliver, “Rooms”, Tuesday, October 7, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Jane Smiley, “Some Luck”, Wednesday, October 8, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Pamela Druckerman, “Bringing up Bébé: One American Mother Discovers the Wisdom of French Parenting”, Thursday, October 9, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Hampton Sides, “In the Kingdom of Ice: The Grand and Terrible Polar Voyage of the USS Jeannette”, Tuesday, October 14, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Cissy Lacks, “Miriam’s Way”, Special appearance by the book’s subject Holocaust survivor Miriam Kenisberg, Wednesday, October 15, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	·         Ann M. Martin & Laura Godwin, Friday, October 17, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Ms. Sorth concluded her report by saying that thanks were due to the staff and volunteers for their efforts to make the Gala a success.
	Dr. Beckwith announced that Mr. Sachs needed to excuse himself from the meeting to attend to a personal matter.
	Edith Cunnane asked questions about measuring the success of new initiatives such as Born to Read and also about the staff time involved.  Ms. Sorth responded that Library programming is part of our budget and that each program is evaluated upon completion.  Dr. Beckwith said that he applauded our literacy initiatives such as the Kindergarten Readiness program.
	Dr. Beckwith asked if there was a plan in place for the Grant’s View groundbreaking in case of rain.  Ms. Sorth answered that a tent will be in place. He also stated that there should be a security plan for the new telescope program and was assured that such a plan was in place.
	OLD BUSINESS
	None
	NEW BUSINESS
	History and Genealogy Presentation
	Scott Holl, Manager of History and Genealogy (formerly Special Collections), gave a Powerpoint presentation on the work of his department. The department opened in 1998 with 20,000 volumes offered by the St. Louis Genealogical Society. Another 20,000 volumes were donated by the National Genealogical Society in 2001 and the department is also home to the Julius K. Hunter & Friends African American Research Collection. Today, the collection consists of 86,000 print volumes, over 25,000 microfilm rolls, 60,000 sheets of microfiche and a number of genealogical databases. The collection provides resources for research on a wide variety of national and ethnic groups and the department’s web pages provide a wealth of information such as microfilm finding aids and online indexes. PastPorts, the department newsletter featuring research tips, new acquisitions, and department news, is emailed to 1,126 subscribers each month. Staff members have backgrounds in a wide range of subjects and several have second language capabilities. They offer reference help to patrons, handle over 2,000 lookup requests per year, conduct tours, create finding aids, and present classes for staff and the public. In conclusion, Mr. Holl mentioned 3 unique collections: Descriptive Recruitment Lists of Volunteers for the United States Colored Troops for the State of Missouri, 1863–1865; Yizkor books, memorializing Jewish villages destroyed by the Nazis; and Ortsippenbücher, containing genealogical data extracted from church records in German villages. Dr. Beckwith thanked Mr. Holl for his informative presentation.
	Architectural Renderings for Jamestown Bluffs, Indian Trails, Weber Road and Rock Road
	Ms. Sorth introduced Tom Diggs with Bond architects who showed the Board color coded floor plans of the Jamestown Bluffs, Indian Trails, Weber Road and Rock Road renovation projects. Each branch will have larger, better defined children’s areas as well as spaces for Teens, quiet reading areas, meeting rooms and café spaces with vending machines. Ms. Sorth responded to Dr. Beckwith’s question about why Rock Road was recommended for an addition by saying that it is a very busy branch that is in need of additional space. She said that the branch was also slated for an addition in the Facilities Master Plan. In response to Edith Cunnane’s question about whether the branches would be closed during renovation, Mr. Diggs stated that they are expected to be closed for at least six months. Dr. Beckwith thanked Mr. Diggs for his presentation.
	2014 Tax Rates
	Kris Mooney stated that the Library Administration has reviewed the 2014 post Board of Equalization (BOE) property value assessments. Property values have slightly increased over the prior year in total by 0.8%. A breakdown of the assessments was shared with the Board.
	Mr. Mooney reminded the Board that the 2014 tax revenue along with the surtax on commercial property will provide approximately 95% of the cash income needed to operate in 2015. According to State Statute, the Board must set the 2014 tax rates by October 1, 2014.
	The proposed tax rates are as follows:
	            Residential - $ 0.250
	            Agricultural - $ 0.279
	            Commercial - $ 0.264
	            Personal Property - $ 0.225
	Applying the above proposed tax rates would provide approximately $48,150,000 in tax revenue. Historically, the Library District has not charged the full voter approved tax ceiling in the Residential Real Estate and Personal Property valuation categories and Administration is proposing to do the same for the 2014 rates.
	The Library Board approved the Resolution that the proposed tax rates be assessed as the 2014 tax rates. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our customers and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 (Cunnane/Tai).
	2014 Budget Revision
	Kris Mooney shared a summary of the Library District’s revenues and expenses that compares the original 2014 Library Budget approved by the Board in December of 2013 to the updated budget prepared by the Library District. He requested the Board’s approval of the 2014 revised Library Budget.
	The Library Board approved the Budget Committee recommendation of the 2014 Revised Budget (Tai/Cunnane).
	Electronic Purchase Order Module
	Kris Mooney presented a purchase order (PO) recommendation to the Board. He explained that the PO document is the cornerstone of an efficient purchasing process. The Finance Department uses PO’s to ensure proper authorization, proper adherence to the bid control policy, and to forecast expenses for budgeting and cash flow purposes.
	Currently, the Library District’s PO process is manual with purchase orders being prepared on a typewriter. Mr. Mooney stated that an electronic purchase order module would interact with our current accounting system and provide a number of other benefits.
	The Library District had two options for electronic purchase order (PO) modules. Both options were made for our current accounting system, Abila, but are very different in terms of functionality. The options were Abila’s standard module, and a module made by a third party provider (Microix) just for Abila. In order to use the Abila standard module, the Library District would have to purchase a license for each user at $150 per user, driving the cost significantly higher than the Microix module. Also, the Microix version’s approval process is much more efficient. The cost of the Abila version is $19,188 and the cost of the Microix module is $10,980.
	Both modules require on site implementation assistance from a third party software consultant. Abila recommends JMT Consulting to support our implementation and coordinate the purchase of the PO module. The contract with JMT to provide this support is under review by Lashly & Baer. The cost of the implementation support is included in the quoted price.
	The Library Board approved the administration’s recommendation for the purchase of the Microix purchase order (PO) module at a cost of $10,980 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Boopsie Mobile App contract Renewal
	Barbara Brain presented a recommendation that the Library Board approve a three year renewal of the Boopsie contract for SLCL Mobile, the Library's mobile app for smart phones and tablets. Using the app, customers are able to log into their library accounts, renew and request materials, search the catalog, find the branch location closest to them, view an event listing, and access a list of mobile-friendly databases. SLCL Mobile also includes access to online resources such as Overdrive, Hoopla, TumbleBooks and Zinio. In July 2014, 11,804 people used the app, a record number of users in a single month and the app continues to be downloaded and activated approximately 2,000 times per month.
	Ms. Brain explained that the contract with Boopsie, the mobile app developer, is due for renewal on September 28.  Boopsie is the single source for this product and we have negotiated the following pricing for a three year agreement:
	 $14,300 plus a $4,000 implementation fee for 2014-2015
	 $15,730 for 2015–2016
	 $17,303 for 2016-2017.
	Ms Brain stated that the Library would also like to subscribe to a new Boopsie service called Cover Cake for an additional $4,500. This service will list books mentioned and reviewed in the media and link directly to our catalog, a useful service for customers and staff. With the addition of Cover Cake, the fees would be as follows:
	 $22,800 for 2014-2015
	 $20,230 for 2015-2016
	 $21,803 for 2016-2017.
	The Library Board approved the Boopsie contract renewal plus Cover Cake for a three year period at a cost of $22,800 for 2014-2015; $20,230 for 2015-2016; and $21,803 for 2016-2017. The cost will be paid out of the electronic resources budget (Cunnane/Tai).
	Grievance Committee
	Mary Arnhart reported that, according to the Personnel Manual, the Library Board appoints two employees to the Grievance Committee for four-year terms. One employee should be appointed in even numbered years and the other in odd numbered nears. This year the Board needs to appoint one additional employee to the committee due to the retirement of a member. This member will serve out the term of the retired employee. Terms of the Grievance Committee shall commence on October 1.
	Ms. Arnhart explained that the current Board appointed employee serving on the Grievance Committee is Christine Flesor and her term will expire on September 30, 2014. Donna Cooper is the other Board appointed member and she has retired.
	The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for Lorraine Budke, Cataloging, to serve a four-year term and Janet Rissmann, Samuel Sachs, to serve a one-year term left from the vacant position. (Cunnane/Tai)
	2015 Structure Adjustments and Merit Raises
	Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for approval of a structure adjustment and merit raises for Library employees. Both the structure adjustment and merit raises are included in the 2015 Library Budget. Ms. Sorth stated that the Library has been working with Lockton Companies, the Library’s Human Resources Consultant, on this recommendation.
	Ms. Sorth explained that each of the Library’s seventeen pay grades contains a minimum, midpoint and maximum salary. Each title is assigned to a pay grade. The structure adjustment recommended by Lockton will only affect employees new to the Library or new to their position and these employees will not be eligible for a merit raise. Lockton conducted an analysis and identified 70 employees that will receive a structure adjustment at a costs $23,415.
	The comparison between the 2014 and 2015 structure was shared with the Board.
	Ms. Sorth also stated that the Library uses a performance management system where individual raises are tied directly to the level of performance for each employee. Through this process, managers can make real distinctions between levels of performance and reward employees accordingly. For 2015, a 0 – 5% merit raise range with a 3% average raise is recommended. Only employees that have worked for the Library for one year or more are eligible for merit
	raises.
	Dr. Beckwith stated that the Library has had an outstanding year and he fully supports this proposal. He also said that he was pleased that performance management training would be offered to ensure that raises would be assigned appropriately.
	The Library Board approved the administration’s recommendation on the salary adjustment based on the analysis conducted by Lockton. These adjustments will cost $583,415 for a 0 – 5% merit raise range with a 3% average (Tai/Cunnane).
	Diversity Goals - Lewis and Clark
	Kristen Sorth presented information on progress towards the diversity goals for the Lewis & Clark Branch construction project. Ms. Sorth explained that 14 work packages for this project will be presented to the Library Board later in the meeting. The bid process involved a review by the Library, Landmark, S.M. Wilson and Sandra Marks, S.M. Wilson’s Diversity Consultant, as to whether the packages meet the diversity goals of 15% for minority owned businesses and 5% for women owned businesses outlined in the Library’s Diversity Statement. Good faith efforts went beyond those required in the Library’s policy and included advertisements, notifications, conversations, meetings and outreach that began in June and continued to the day of the public bid opening. Ms. Sorth shared a summary of these efforts along with a letter from S.M. Wilson describing these efforts in more detail.
	The work packages were released on August 18, 2014 with responses due on September 3, 2014. Minority goals were included in those documents. Board members were provided with a summary of the responses received as well as the minority percentages indicated for each low bidder. All bidders were required to submit a Good Faith Effort Statement detailing their attempts to include diversity in their bid proposals. Ms. Sorth also provided the Board with an analysis of the bids detailing the total construction amount for each work package as well as the percent and the amount of construction dollars paid to a minority or woman owned business for each work package.
	The total percent of construction awarded to minority owned businesses is 7.4% and the total amount for women owned businesses is 17.7%. While the goal for women owned businesses was exceeded, the goal for minority owned businesses was not reached. Ms. Sorth said that the Administration is disappointed by the percentage but found that a significant Good Faith Effort had been made by all involved to encourage minority participation on this project.
	Ms. Sorth stated that she, Dr. Beckwith and Steve Hunter have attended several meetings to discuss the diversity goals. The Library, Landmark and S.M. Wilson will continue to emphasize the Library’s Diversity Statement and will monitor and encourage minority workforce participation which goes above and beyond the requirements of the Library’s policy on this and all future projects.
	Dr. Beckwith stated that he is pleased with the participation of women owned businesses but the participation of minority owned businesses needs improvement.
	Contracts and Contingency for Construction of New Lewis and Clark Branch
	Steve Hunter recommended that the Library Board approve the lowest and best bid on 15 work packages for the new Lewis & Clark Branch. Final construction documents were delivered by KAI on August 15, 2014. The work was organized into 15 separate work packages, which were released for bid on August 18, 2014. Bids were due September 3, 2014 and opened in a public meeting at Library Headquarters. 66 bids and multiple responses were received in all 15 work packages. Mr. Hunter stated that the Library is still qualifying the responses for Work Package
	#15 – Asphaltic Paving and will propose a recommendation for this at a future meeting.
	Mr. Hunter presented the responses for each individual work package for the Board’s approval. He also explained that there would be a separate recommendation for a project contingency.
	Work Package #1 – Cast-in-place Concrete
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Demien at $334,300 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #2 – Structural Steel
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Affton Fabrication at $345,869 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #3 – General Works
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Waterhout at $967,430 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #4 – Roofing
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Midwest Service Group at $128,793 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #5 – Sheet Metal
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Vogel Sheet Metal at $151,805 Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #6 – Glass & Glazing
	The Library board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from St Charles Glass at $371,721(Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #7 – Drywall
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Interior Construction Services at $232,300 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #8 – Tile & Flooring
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Interior Construction Services at $105,450 (Cunnane/Tai)
	.
	Work Package #9 – Painting
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dannix at $28,260 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #10 – Fire Suppression
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Gateway Mechanical at $75,953 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #11 – Plumbing
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Eagle Plumbing at $146,800 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #12 – HVAC
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Hayes Mechanical at $699,288 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Work Package #13 – Electrical
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Aschinger at $765,883 (Tai/Cunnane).
	Work Package #14 – Earthwork
	The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Bommarito at $439,220 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Contingency
	Mr. Hunter requested the Board’s approval of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $219,380. This includes $41,230 for permitting and $178,150 for unforeseen conditions, design errors and owner requested changes. The spending of this contingency fund would be approved by Kristen Sorth, Library Director or Steve Hunter, Construction Manager as needed during the execution of the project. The accounting of the expenditures against the contingency fund will be reported back to the Library Board each month.
	The Library Board approved of a project contingency fund totaling $219,380 Tai/Cunnane).
	Engineering Testing Services
	Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation to select a firm to provide engineering testing services to the Library District for the new Lewis & Clark and Phase 1B renovation projects. Lashly Baer assisted with the construction of a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) and provided guidance during the process. The RFQ was published on August 26, 2014. It was posted on the Library’s website and an ad was placed in the paper. W/MBE firms were contacted directly and invited to submit proposals. Responses were due September 4, 2014. Five firms responded.
	Mr. Hunter explained that the Selection Procedures for Architects and Engineers are clearly defined by Missouri State Statute and described in the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with those documents, Mr. Hunter and representatives from Landmark independently reviewed and ranked the proposals based on the responses given to the proposal requirements. A fee proposal / rate sheet was then requested from the highest ranked firm, ABNA.
	Mr. Hunter further explained that testing firms are generally engaged on a “unit of service” basis. ABNA’s unit prices are in line with our expectations for the work specified. Their overall estimate for Lewis & Clark is a not-to-exceed cost of $69,389.
	The Library Board approved the selection of ABNA to provide engineering testing services to the Library District for the Lewis & Clark and Phase 1B projects (Tai/Cunnane).
	Summer Reading Club Software Hosting
	Eric Button requested the Board’s approval for the implementation of an open source software application for the Library’s Summer Reading Club (SRC). The software, which is currently available at no cost, was developed by Systems Technology Group (STG) under the direction of the Maricopa County Library District and it presents a new approach to incentives.  The program eliminates toy prizes, which were difficult to acquire and sometimes lacked in quality and appeal, and focuses more on personal achievement through a system of awarding virtual “badges”.  SRC participants will still receive a book for completing the program, and they will also be eligible to receive any free offers provided by SRC sponsors.
	Mr. Button stated that this new approach will provide a number of benefits such as providing children an opportunity to improve their digital learning skills; allowing children to earn points and “badges” for completing reading, attending library programs and completing online learning activities; significantly reducing the amount of staff time required to register and record participation; and providing an increased ability to promote programs.
	Mr. Button went on to say that the greatest benefit is that it will offer an opportunity for participants to measure the impact on reading levels through an assessment test before starting the SRC and after completion. With more than 145,000 SRC participants in 2014, and over 40,000 of those meeting the completion goal, these features would be invaluable in administering the program at St. Louis County Library.
	In order to utilize this free, open source application, the Library must establish a server to run the application.  Staff from Administration, Information Technology Services, and Youth Services conducted research into the application and hosting services.  Since STG is the originator and designer of the software, and the sole provider of hosting services, Library staff requested them to provide a proposal to host and support the application for St. Louis County Library’s 2015 summer reading club. Annual hosting and support services, along with a limited number of functional support calls are available from STG at an annual cost of $18,600.  Should the Library need additional customization of the summer reading club application, these services could also be provided by STG, though additional charges would apply as this is outside the scope of the recommended service.
	The Library Board approved the recommendation for a twelve month contract with Systems Technology Group (STG) to host and support the summer reading club application for St. Louis County Library at a cost of $18,600.  Funds for the STG hosting service will be taken from the Technology budget (Cunnane/Tai).
	Automated Materials Handling
	Eric Button presented a proposal to purchase an Automatic Materials Handler (AMH) for the new Grant's View Branch and establish a preferred vendor for any future AMH equipment
	purchases. The Library installed its first AMH equipment at Daniel Boone Branch in 2011. The
	system allows customers to return their own materials and have them checked in immediately.
	The AMH equipment saves a tremendous amount of staff time and the return on investment is very high: the systems typically pay for themselves after just a few years of use.
	Mr. Button stated that a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued on July 28, 2014. It was sent to six companies, placed on the Library’s web page, and an ad was placed in the Post-Dispatch. Vendors were asked to provide a cost for equipment and installation, as well as the ongoing support and maintenance costs for years 2-5 and years 6-10. Three responses were received and were independently reviewed and ranked by a team composed of Gib Van Cleve, Marie Conlin, Stephanie Nordmann, Amy Hanaway, and Eric Button.  The proposal from Lyngsoe was ranked highest by all members of the review team. Lyngsoe’s proposal also had the lowest line item cost for future AMH installations at other locations.
	The Library Board approved administration’s recommendation of Lyngsoe Systems for the
	purchase and installation of an Automated Materials Handling system for the Grant’s View
	Branch at a cost of $165,400. This expense is included in the overall project budget for Grant’s
	View Branch and will be paid for using bond proceeds (Cunnane/Tai).
	ADJOURN
	There was a motion by Dr. Tai to adjourn the open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); Ms.  Cunnane seconded.  All approved by voice vote: Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Dr. Chingling Tai, and Edith Cunnane.
	Board adjourned at 5:21p.m
	Respectfully submitted,
	____________________                                                        _________________
	Dr. Chingling Tai,                                                                    Date
	Secretary