{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9JWU9Q5D773B",
  "date": "2014-12-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2014
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, December 15, 2014 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		ATTENDANCE:
		Library Board Members:
		Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President via telephone
		Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Elena Kenyon, Treasurer via telephone
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult & Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; and Gwen Knight, Colliers.
		Others Attending:
		Jennifer Alexander, Steve Hunter, Scott Holl, Mary Arnhart, Sri Upadhya, Roz Kohen, Laura Kasak, Annie Fuller, Cindy A. Miller, Barb Reale, Julie Mangner, Alaina Culberson, Susie Bushnell, Ed Clark, Marsha Ramey, Ann Arthur, Kris Mooney, Erin Magner, Allison Wisniewski, Rebecca Clarke, Conrad Rader, Colleen Hall, Paul Bayless, Aaron Eller, Emily Althoff, Kathy Wiese, Lisa Haddox, Megan Coyle, Crystal Harris, Trudy Williams, Donna Spaulding, Michael Cohen, Steve Hibbler, Christina Pryor, Sarah Wood, Matt Lakin, Maureen Willmann, Gina Sheridan, Anna Strackeljahn, Rachel Nowell and Sandra J. Williams.
		MINUTES
		The Library Board approved the minutes from the November 17, 2014 meeting (Sachs/Tai).
		PUBLIC COMMENT
		There were no public comments.
		TREASURER'S REPORT
		Kris Mooney reported that the Library District received the first payment of $7,416 from the State of Missouri. These grants funds will be used toward the purchase of nine MacBook Pro laptops for use in teen programming.
		In November, the Beyond Housing Designated Reserve Grant contributed $10,000 to the Library to create 30 book discussion kits for middle school and high school students in the Normandy school district.
		HVAC Solutions, Inc. purchased a trailer from the Library, which had previously been used with the Library’s Bookmobile programs. The trailer has been unused for approximately 5 years. The District received $4,000 in proceeds from the sale.
		The Library District paid $15,080 in November to Missouri Research and Education network (MOREnet) for renewal of the Library’s annual membership. MOREnet membership provides access to many electronic databases for Library patrons, such as Heritage Quest, EBSCO, and Learning Express Library.
		The District paid $6,840 to Neumayer Equipment Co. for the installation of a new manhole and to replace the hoses and nozzles for the gas pumps at Headquarters. The Library paid $3,600 to Missouri Ornamental Iron Co. for hand-rail repairs at the public entrances to Headquarters.
		The District replaced worn microfilm machine carriers in the History and Genealogy department at Headquarters for a cost of $4,050. Also, security cameras were installed overlooking the community gardens at Prairie Commons and Cliff Cave for $4,036.
		$9,000 was paid towards the purchase of "Great Reading Adventure" software. This will be used for the Summer Reading Club in 2015 allowing the Library to track participant registration, program progress, and issue awards. This is the first of two $9,000 payments. The purchase was approved by the Board at the September meeting.
		Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
		Total Construction in Progress for November 2014 was $1,174,160. The expenses included payments for:
				Grants View construction (payable to many sub-contractors) - $423,725
				Lewis & Clark construction (payable to many sub-contractors) – $292,514
				Architects Fees payable to Bond Architects, Christner, and KAI –$256,497
				The remaining dollars were largely spent for the services of the Facilities
		Master Plan Administrator, Construction Manager, and legal fees.  The Lirary Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Sachs).
		DIRECTOR’S REPORT
		Ms. Sorth introduced and welcomed Waller McGuire, Director of the St. Louis Public Library. Mr. McGuire addressed the Board. He said it was a pleasure to communicate regularly with Ms. Sorth and congratulated the Board on the construction projects. Dr. Beckwith congratulated Mr. McGuire on the renovation of the Central Library.
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		Ms. Sorth stated that Steve Hunter would be updating the Board each month on the construction projects.
		Library Update
		 Ms. Sorth shared the December “dashboard” report with the Board. The “dashboard” shows a variety of statistical information, including circulation statistics, visits, programming and the most popular items from the collection. The dashboard also contains a chart listing the circulation of the Library’s literacy kits including Preschool Outreach, Family Literacy Program (FLIP) and the Nurse Family Partnership. In addition, there is information about the Library’s eBook circulation.
		 A product called "Simple Scan" was installed at Florissant Valley Branch in mid-November and has been well received by customers and staff. In addition to a number of scanning options, the equipment also offers scanning to fax and faxing services. The faxing service is offered at $0.50 per page for domestic faxing and $1.00 per page for international faxing. The Fax24 unit has been temporarily removed from public access to encourage faxing through Simple Scan. The installation at FV will serve as a test project to determine if the equipment would be of value elsewhere.
		 Clarkson Eyecare will be a partner with SLCL and the Society for the Blind and Visually Impaired on the e-reader drive. Clarkson Eyecare will display signs at all 63 store locations to encourage donations of e-readers for the program. They will run the drive for at least six weeks.
		 The Library is working with the very popular The American Girl Store to provide materials and programming for children at the Library. The American Girl store provided us with 20 copies of ten book titles that will be used to support children's book discussions and programming on the American Girl titles which will begin in 2015.
		 Ms. Sorth said the Library is expecting delivery of the new Sweet Reads Bookmobile later this month. The Library Board approved the purchase earlier this year. The bookmobile will be dedicated to offering year round Sweet Reads service in the Spanish Lake area. Currently, we use a Library van to deliver materials to this area of the County. The Library received a $6,000 grant for the bookmobile wrap and technology for Sweet Reads from the Norman J. Stupp Foundation and Commerce Bankshares Foundation.
		 The Communications Department issued a press release regarding the upcoming branch closures with plans to issue another one after the first of the year. The public information campaign regarding the upcoming branch closures began on December 1. Information is available on the Library’s website, phone system, mobile app and social media outlets. Patrons have been notified through hold notices, emails, public access pcs and signage at all of the Library’s locations. School districts have also been informed of the closures.
		 The Library School at the University of Missouri – Columbia is partnering on a grant with six public libraries, including St. Louis County Library, to provide 24 master of library and information science (MLS) students with a targeted experience in public library leadership and management, with the expectation that these students will go on to become public library leaders after graduation. The students will take three specialized courses on public library leadership and will be paired with public library administrators across the state for their practicum experiences.
		We will be hosting a practicum student during the spring semester for 135 hours on site at our Library.
		 Plans for the Sachs Reading Garden are progressing. The Foundation’s Ad Hoc Reading Garden Committee met this week with SWT Design to review two bids received from contractors for the project. The Committee recommended approval of the low bidder, JW Fuller, subject to verification of the details in their proposal. The Foundation Board voted to approve JW Fuller as the contractor at their meeting on December 9, 2014. SWT and the Library are working with the City of Chesterfield on various permits required prior to construction.
		 There were additional mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the media. Library Hotline included information about the Lewis and Clark groundbreaking and St. Louis Public Radio included information about our programming efforts during the recent unrest in North County. The articles were shared with Board members.
		 Ms. Sorth showed a number of photos from several programs and events including:
		Animal Safari at Florissant Valley, the Sweet Reads donation from a Brownie troop at HQ, a school visit to the History and Genealogy Department at HQ, author Garth Stein, author Billy Collins and Pre-school Collage at Grand Glaize.
		Library Employee Update
		 Ms. Sorth stated that the Library Staff Association’s annual holiday food drive to benefit Operation Food Search began on November 4 and continues until December 31, 2014. Both staff and patrons may participate in this food drive. Last year the St. Louis County Library collected 7120 pounds of food.
		 The Library’s actuary, Milliman, has submitted a recommendation for two changes to the Library’s Pension Plan assumptions. The Pension Board met earlier today to review the recommendation. The Library Board will review it later in this meeting.
		 We have received the Library’s Experience Mod rating for Worker’s Compensation. It is a .85. This number represents either a credit or debit that is applied to our workers’ compensation premium. A rating of 1.0 is considered to be the industry average. An Experience Mod under 1.0 is a Credit Mod, which means losses are better than expected, resulting in a premium discount. The Library has a Safety Committee which reviews all accidents and incidents.
		 The Library’s Training Department will be scheduling mandatory diversity training for all Library employees in 2015. We will contract with an outside diversity consultant to provide the training. Staff will be surveyed prior to the training.
		Library Facility Update
		 The upgrades to the Library’s fire and burglar alarm panels continue at Headquarters, Bridgeton Trails, Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Mid County, Oak Bend, Samuel C. Sachs and Thornhill.
		 A large section of copper flashing came off the outside of the building at Daniel Boone. Repairs are forth coming.
		 Roof leaks were reported at Natural Bridge, Eureka Hills and Jamestown Bluffs during the rainy weather in the last several weeks. The roofs have been repaired.
		Author Events
		 Artist Marilynne Bradley and Writer David Baugher, Authors of “Once Upon a Time in St. Louis: An Illustrated Trip Through the Past”, Wednesday, January 7, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Local Historian Carol Ferring Shepley, Author of “St. Louis—An Illustrated Timeline: Blues, Baseball, Books, Crooks, Civil Rights and the River”, Thursday, January 15, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Graeme Simsion, Author of “The Rosie Effect”, Tuesday, January 20, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 National Book Award-Winning Novelist Julia Glass, Author of “And the Dark Sacred
		Night”, Wednesday, January 21, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 Ishmael Beah, Author of “Radiance of Tomorrow”, Wednesday, January 28, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		 St. Louis Mystery Writer Michael Kahn, Author of “The Sirena Quest”, Thursday, January 29, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
		In answer to Dr. Beckwith’s question about disruption in service at the branch because of the Natural Bridge Road renovation, NB Manager Alaina Culberson said that some customers had concerns but there wasn't a huge disruption.
		OLD BUSINESS
		NONE
		NEW BUSINESS
		Construction Update
		Steve Hunter gave a PowerPoint presentation on the construction projects. He stated that work on the underground utilities at Grant’s View is being finalized and the project is 10% complete. We are on target for an August 2015 completion. Lewis and Clark is approximately 5% complete.
		Four branch renovation projects will begin in the first quarter of 2015. The planning team is finalizing details of the closures and communication with staff and patrons is ongoing. Bids for these projects will be due January 27 and presented at the February 9 Board meeting.
		Mr. Hunter said that the plan is to close the four branches one week apart beginning mid February.
		Dr. Beckwith asked Lewis and Clark Branch Manager, Laura Kasak to talk about challenges faced due to the lack of parking during construction. Ms. Kasak said that circulation had decreased as a result of programming being curtailed because of the parking issues.
		Electronic Purchase Order Module and Third Party Software Consultant
		Kris Mooney presented an information item to update the Board on the Microix electronic purchase order module approved in September. (The original memo was shared with the Board.)
		Mr. Mooney stated that, upon approval, Administration began contract negotiations with the third party software consultant, JMT Consultants and were not successful.
		Mr. Mooney noted that the Library was originally advised by Abila, manufacturer of our current accounting software, that JMT was the only consultant we could work with to implement the Microix module. After negotiations broke down, Abila recommended two other consultants in the St. Louis area with Microix purchase order module expertise.
		The Library selected the quote from Zobrio at a cost of $7,392.00. This is less than the original amount approved by the Board in September and, since it is under $10,000, Board approval is not required.
		2015 Budget
		Kris Mooney presented the 2015 Budget. He stated that the document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of the following individuals:
		Kristen Sorth – Director
		Barbara Brain - Assistant Director, Adult & Support Services
		Barbara Turkington - Assistant Director, Advancement
		Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS
		Eric Button – Assistant Director, Branch Services
		Kris Mooney –Manager, Finance
		Mr. Mooney said that the Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Board in September.
		Mr. Mooney stated that the 2015 Budget was first presented at the November Library Board meeting as an informational item to give Board members time to review the Budget document, ask questions and for Administration to respond. The Library Board approved the 2015 Budget (Cunnane/Tai).
		Pension Plan Actuarial Assumptions
		Kristen Sorth presented the Pension Board’s recommendation to modify the investment rate and compensation rate assumptions for the Library’s pension plan. Ms. Sorth then introduced Josh Richardson, the Library Pension Plan's attorney from McMahon Berger and Bill Winningham from Milliman, the Library Pension Plan’s Actuary.
		Mr. Winningham reported in greater detail on the recommended changes. He explained that Milliman had performed a review of selected actuarial methods and assumptions used in the annual Actuarial Valuation which determines the Library’s annual contribution, funding percentage, and unfunded liability. Milliman recommended changing the investment assumption from 7.25% to 7.0% and the compensation assumption from a flat 4.5% to a salary scale based on historical data on compensation increases from the Library. A summary of the changes was included in a report issued by Milliman that was shared with the Library Board.
		The Pension Board believes these changes to be in the best interests of the Pension Plan participants and formally approved them at the December meeting.
		The Library Board approved the Pension Board’s recommendation to accept Milliman’s recommended changes to the actuarial assumptions. By approving the recommendation, the Board also authorized the Library Director to amend the Pension Plan document to incorporate the actuarial changes. (Cunnane/Tai).
		Recycle Pickup Services
		Eric Button presented the Library Administration’s recommendation to select the bid from Waste Management for recycle pickup services.
		Mr. Button reported that the Library has contracted with its current recycle pickup service since 2006. An Invitation for Bid was issued on November 4, 2014 for three years of recycle pickup services at all St. Louis County Library (SLCL) locations except Meramec Valley Branch. Invitations were sent to seven companies, a notice was placed on the SLCL web site, and an ad was placed in the Post-Dispatch. Mr. Button explained that, while responses were received from only two companies, the recommended bid is approximately 65% lower than the current cost for recycle pickup services.
		The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the selection of the lowest and best bid from Waste Management for recycle pickup services at nineteen SLCL locations for a period of three years at an annual cost of $7,332.48. The Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract with Waste Management. A temporary suspension of the service may occur during the construction and renovation projects resulting in cost savings. Any expenses incurred for these services will be deducted from the 2015 Building Operation budget (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Trash Pickup Services
		Eric Button presented the Administration’s recommendation to select the bid from Waste Management for trash pickup services.
		Mr. Button stated that the Library has contracted with its current trash pickup service for many
		years. An Invitation for Bid was issued on November 4, 2014 for three years of trash pickup
		services at all St. Louis County Library (SLCL) locations except Meramec Valley Branch.
		Invitations were sent to seven companies, a notice was placed on the SLCL web site, and an ad
		was placed in the Post-Dispatch. Mr. Button explained that, while responses were received from only two companies, the recommended bid is approximately 50% lower than the current cost for trash pickup services.
		The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to select the lowest and best bid from Waste Management for trash pickup services at nineteen SLCL locations for a period of three years at an annual cost of $10,503.12. The Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract with Waste Management. A temporary suspension of the service may occur during the construction and renovation projects resulting in cost savings. Any expenses incurred for these services will be deducted from the 2015 Building Operation budget. (Cunnane/Sachs).
		WAN (Wide Area Network Services)
		Gib Van Cleve presented the Library Administration’s request for approval of a new five year Wide Area Network Services contract with Charter Business.
		Mr. Van Cleve reported that the current contract with Charter will expire in July 2015. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued to solicit competitive bids as required by E-Rate. The RFP was posted on November 5, 2014. Invitations were sent to five regional network service providers, advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and posted on the Library website and the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website. Mr. Van Cleve explained that the Wide Area Network (WAN) is the computing backbone for the Library District. The RFP requested a multi-point design that would allow the network to continue working from our disaster recovery site at Daniel Boone in the event that the Headquarters network goes down. The RFP also requested the flexibility to allow us to reduce branch connection speeds where appropriate for cost savings.
		One response was received from Charter Business. Three other vendors made inquiries during the process but did not submit proposals. Charter reduced the individual circuit costs by 19% and will also give us the flexibility to decrease the subscribed amount of bandwidth on individual circuits for additional savings. Mr. Van Cleve reported that, after selecting our desired connection speeds and applying Charter’s cost reductions, we will achieve a cost reduction of $7,200 per month or $86,400 per year in WAN fees.
		The Board approved Administration’s recommendation to enter into a new contract with Charter Business for Wide Area Network Services at a cost of $134,460 per year. The Library Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 41% would reduce the cost to $79,331 per year. WAN services are included in the 2015 Telecommunications budget. (Sachs/Kenyon).
		Technology (Internet Services)
		Gib Van Cleve presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for approval of a new three year Internet Services contract with Charter Business.
		Mr. Van Cleve said that our current contract with Charter will expire in July 2015. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued on November 5, 2014 to solicit competitive bids as required by E-Rate. The RFP was sent to five regional Internet service providers, advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and posted on the Library website as well as the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website. Mr. Van Cleve explained that we currently have one high speed fiber Internet connection at Headquarters that provides Internet access for public and staff PCs across the District. The RFP requested high speed Internet connections at both Headquarters and Daniel Boone with the ability to shift all Internet services to Daniel Boone in the event of a disaster at Headquarters. The RFP also requested that the Library have the ability to increase or decrease Internet speeds on either circuit as desired.
		While three other vendors submitted questions during the process, only one response from Charter Business was received. Charter’s proposal met the Library’s technical and flexibility requirements and will provide a 200% increase in Internet speed at two locations for a 55% price increase.
		The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to enter into a three year contract with Charter Business for Internet Services at a cost of $45,000 per year. The Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 41% would reduce this amount to $26,550 per year. Internet services are included in the 2015 Telecommunications budget. (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Moving Company for Renovation Projects
		Steve Hunter presented the Library Administration’s recommendation to accept the bid from Dodge Moving and Storage to provide moving services for Phase 1B renovation projects.
		Mr. Hunter reported that the Library District is scheduled to begin facility renovations at nine locations in 2015. An outside moving service is needed to relocate materials from these locations to a temporary storage facility and back. Library employees will provide guidance to the movers but we do not have the staff or equipment to manage the physical moves. An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was posted on November 12, 2014 via a newspaper ad, website posting, and direct e-mail to several known firms and firms selected using Missouri’s on-line Women/Minority Business Enterprise (W/MBE) directory. A pre-bid meeting was held November 19, 2014. Bids were due on December 4, 2014 and opened in a public meeting at Rock Road. Four responses were received but one did not meet qualifications.
		The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dodge Moving and Storage to provide moving services for the nine renovation projects in Phase 1B at a cost of $124,732.40. The Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. (Cunnane/Sachs).
		First Amendment to Facilities Master Plan Phase 1B Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement
		Steve Hunter presented an amendment to the Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement between the Library and Bond Architects for the Library Board’s approval.
		Mr. Hunter reported that, upon further inspection, it was determined that the roof at Weber Road must be replaced. This additional work necessitates an amendment to the Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement between the Library and Bond Architects. The First Amendment to the Agreement as drafted by attorneys at Lashly & Baer was shared with the Board. Replacing the roof will require the branch to be brought current with the relevant energy code while adding insulation will increase the thickness of the roof and change the roof details, requiring additional architectural involvement. Due to this change in scope, Bond Architects will receive $10,400 in additional compensation for Architectural and Engineering Services. Their total compensation is adjusted to a not-to-exceed amount of $1,907,708.
		The Library Board approved the First Amendment to the Facilities Master Plan Phase 1B Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement and authorized the Director to enter into and execute the amendment. (Cunnane/Sachs).
		Masonry Work at Mid-County Branch
		Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation to accept the lowest and best bid from James G Staat Tuckpointing for masonry work at the Mid County Branch.
		Mr. Hunter reported on the deterioration of the brick walls at the staircase on the southeast corner of the building. He stated that bids were solicited for repair of the inside and outside walls of the staircase in order to ensure a safe entrance. An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was posted on November 24, 2014 via a newspaper ad, website posting, and direct e-mail to several known firms and firms selected using Missouri’s on-line Women/Minority Business Enterprise (W/MBE) directory. A walk-through of the site was held December 2, 2014 with bids due on December 4, 2014 and opened in a public meeting at Mid-County. A bid alternate was requested to i) replace a concrete pad at the top of the stairs and ii) replace the handrail.
		The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to select the lowest and best bid from James G Staat Tuckpointing to provide masonry work at Mid-County for $44,320 (including the alternate). The Board also authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. This project is included in the 2015 budget at $50,000 (Tai/Sachs).
		ADJOURN
		Dr. Beckwith and the Board wished the staff a happy and safe holiday season.
		Mrs. Cunnane made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Dr. Tai seconded the motion. All approved by voice vote.
		Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Steve Sachs, Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon
		The meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
		Respectfully submitted,
		_____________________________                                                                ____________________________
		Chingling Tai                                                                                                   Date
		Board Secretary