{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9J8JQM4DB270",
  "date": "2014-05-19T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
		MEETING OF THE BOARD
		HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
		MONDAY, MAY 19, 2014
		The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, May 19, 2014 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
		ATTENDANCE:
		Library Board Members:
		Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
		Edith Cunnane, Vice President
		Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
		Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
		Steve Sachs, Member
		Administrators and Guests Attending:
		Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult and Support Services; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer; Melissa Harlan, Christner Inc.; John Haake, patron; Mark Baron, patron; Gloria Lloyd, Call Newspapers; and Tom Curran, St. Louis County Government.
		Others attending:
		Lori Boschert; Christina Pryor, Gina Sheridan, Parkie Peck, Ellen Schmidt, Darryl Wallace, Steve Hibbler, Michael Cohen, Carrie Robb, Cynthia Schultz, Cheri Remington, Roz Kohen, Jennifer Jung, Nicole Clawson, Connie Dee, Anna Strackeljahn, Rachel Nowell, Amy Hanaway, Colleen Hall, Kimberly Clark, Barb Reale, Jennifer McBride, Ed Clark, Kathy Muller, Matt Lakin, Cindy Miller, Anna Schurk, Alaina Culbertson, Julia Mangner, Mary Arnhart, Kris Mooney, Edith Isele, Paul Bayless, Joyce Loving, Erin Magner, Stacy Berger, Anna Huckeby, Bobby Jones, Aaron Eller, Conrad Rader, Tracy Fletcher, Dottie Wobbe, Stephanie Nordmann, Rebecca Clarke, Marie Conlin, Steve Hunter, Kathy Wiese, Emily Althoff, Laura Kasak, Megan Coyle, Keir Haug, Natalia Catlett, Anne Arthur, Donna Spaulding and Sandy Williams.
		MINUTES
		The Library Board approved the April 21, 2014 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
		PUBLIC COMMENT
		Mr. Mark Baron expressed his gratitude to the Library Board.  He said that he visited Headquarters almost every day and felt like a kid in a candy store. He also said that the Library had wonderful staff.
		TREASURER'S REPORT
		Finance Manager, Kris Mooney reported that the Board approved the Library District’s investment plan for operating funds at the January 27, 2014 meeting. On January 31, 2014, the Library District purchased eight $4 million CDs totaling $32 million. The Library District earned $613 in interest on this investment when the first of the CD’s matured in April.
		In April, the second of two payments for State Aid for the fiscal year 2014 were received from the Missouri State Library. This payment was for $214,787.  The first payment received in October, 2013 was also for $214,787. The Library District is currently making application for fiscal year 2015 State Aid and should be receiving the first payment in October of 2014.
		Also in April, the Library District paid Vector Communications $25,618 for strategic planning facilitation services. Vector Communications helped to organize and facilitate strategic planning focus groups as well as to develop, administer, and summarize staff and patron surveys. The Board approved the strategic planning services at the October 10, 2013 meeting.
		The Interface with Unique Management Services was purchased from Innovative Interfaces Incorporated, our integrated library system vendor, for $17,000. The software was approved at the January 22, 2014 Library Board meeting and will allow Unique Management Services to help facilitate the fine collection process on the Library’s behalf.
		Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
		Total Construction in Progress for April 2014 was $73,087. The expenses included were payments for architect fees in the amount of $51,857 and $21,230 for the services of our Facilities Master Plan Administrator.
		The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
		DIRECTOR'S REPORT
		Kristen Sorth presented the following report:
		Facilities Master Plan Update
		South County Regional Branch
		Ms. Sorth reported that Melissa Harlan from Christner will show updated designs for the South County Regional Branch later in the Board meeting. The Library has been notified by the St. Louis County Department of Highways and Traffic that they have gone through the consultant selection process for the Musick Road project and will be asking the County Council for permission to enter into a contract with the Design Consultant.
		Lewis and Clark
		The current Lewis and Clark branch will be open during construction of the new branch; however, parking will be limited. During construction, the Library will retain 32 parking spots. There are currently 154 parking spaces at Lewis and Clark. As a result, the meeting rooms will not be available during construction.
		Renovations
		Since the Meramec Valley and Mid-County projects are moving to Phase 2 of the construction plan, Administration has determined which renovation projects will be moved to Phase 1. This was accomplished by developing the preliminary scopes for all of the renovation projects in Phase 1 and 2. These were determined by Library staff and Landmark, the Library’s Facilities Plan Administrator, and were reviewed by S.M. Wilson, the Library’s Construction Manager. Once the scopes were developed, a decision was made to bring six additional renovation projects into Phase 1. Cliff Cave, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Prairie Commons, Sachs and Weber Road will be added to the list of Phase 1 renovation projects that already includes Indian Trails, Rock Road and Jamestown Bluffs. The preliminary schedule for all of the Phase 1 projects is attached. The timing of the projects is spaced so as not to adversely impact certain areas of the county by having all of the construction projects happening in that area at one time. The RFQ for architectural services for the Phase 1 renovation projects has been posted and we have received 21 responses. The Administration will be making a recommendation to the Library Board on an architect at the June Board Meeting.
		Library Update
		 The attached “dashboard” report for April contains a variety of statistical information. This month, the report includes statistics on circulation, visits, Sunday visits, collection usage, self check usage, and Food for Fines. It also has information on the most popular items in our collection.
		 Thanks to generous financial support and backing of approximately 75 volunteers from Citi, the library will be offering special events at all twenty SLCL locations from 1:00-4:00 p.m. on Saturday, June 7, which is Citi's Global Community Day. Most locations will feature a bounce house and snow cones as well as other outdoor games, crafts, or activities. At some locations, where a bounce house is not feasible, children and families will enjoy the work of balloon artists or face painters. All of these activities are meant to encourage participation in the Summer Reading Club and increase summer reading by children. While the Summer Reading Club began on May 12, this will be the first big weekend after schools release for the summer.
		 From June 2 to August 15, the St. Louis County Library will be partnering with Operation Food Search to present summer meals for children. The meals are funded through the State of Missouri and coordinated by Operation Food search as part of their "No Kid Hungry" initiative. Lunches will be distributed by Operation Food Search at three of our locations (Florissant Valley, Rock Road, Weber Road) Monday through Friday. These three locations were chosen based on the expressed need of children in those areas of the community as well as the availability of consistent meeting space needed to provide the food daily. Ideally, this program will provide food during summer break to our community's children who rely on school lunches for a consistent meal during the school year. The Library will also provide activities such as board games, crafts, and programming in addition to the lunches. Operation Food Search will also coordinate food distribution with some of our Sweet Reads site visits. As we have mentioned previously, the Library’s Sweet Reads mobile delivery service is expanding to additional locations in North County starting June 9th.
		 Library staff met with representatives from EducationPlus, formerly called the Cooperating School District, to discuss how we could work together to promote the goals of both of our organizations. Since that meeting, EducationPlus has been promoting our Summer Reading Club program in meetings with their members, in their newsletter and also on social media.
		 HQ and the branches have been promoting the Library’s eMedia resources by staffing information tables at all of our locations. Staff is telling customers about a variety of services including Zinio, Hoopla, Overdrive, the Library's App, One Click, Tumble Books, Book A Trainer, Library Elf and eCourses. A flier with information about some of these services is attached.
		 The Special Collections department received a generous donation of $100,000 from a donor who wishes to remain anonymous. The donation will be used to buy items related to German genealogical research per the donor’s request. The Library has purchased 924 rolls of Swiss genealogical materials on microfilm as well as some printed material. This purchase means that the Library’s Special Collections department is the premier site in the United States for these items.
		 In January, the Board approved the purchase of collection software from Innovative Interfaces Incorporated and a contract with Unique Management Services to pursue past due accounts, with an emphasis on collection of materials. We are currently testing this software and developing internal procedures for implementation in the summer.
		 In January, we told the Library Board that we would begin offering our customers access to a new digital movie, television, music and audiobook service called Hoopla. The service went live May 5, 2014. Using Hoopla, customers can stream or temporarily download movies, television shows, audiobooks and entire music albums to their smartphones, tablets or computers. Since the launch, there have been 2464 downloads. There have been several mentions in the press about Hoopla.
		 Food for Fines was very successful this year with 32,152 pounds of food collected system-wide. This is one of Operation Food Search’s largest food drives. A chart with the branch breakdown is attached.
		 The Library has been notified of two additional grants. We received a Racing to Read Grant from the State Library. This grant will be used to purchase pre-literacy panels at the branches. These panels are interactive early literacy activities for pre-readers. We were also notified that we received a LEAP Grant for Libraries from Better World Books. This grant was to support our efforts to provide books at juvenile detention centers in St. Louis County.
		 The Library is partnering with the Red Cross to hold blood drives at all of our branches. We will be scheduling blood drives at branches in 2014 but the official kickoff of the partnership will begin in 2015.
		 Plans are progressing on the Foundation’s Sachs Reading Garden project. The Foundation has selected SWT Design as the landscape architect. More discussion of this project will take place later in the meeting.
		 The Library was contacted months ago about a potential "mystery" author and asked to set aside a date on the calendar. The auditorium at HQ was reserved for Tuesday, July 15 for a 7:00 p.m. event. The publisher just informed us that the author is Chris Colfer, children's author and actor from the TV show "Glee." Because of this author’s notoriety, we do not believe the auditorium is big enough for this event. In most other cities, Chris Colfer is only doing a signing but they are planning a special speaking event for us. Ms. Sorth asked that the Library Board approve closing early on Tuesday, July 15 (at 5:00 p.m.) so the event can be held in the reading room at HQ.
		Ms. Sorth distributed two letters for the Board’s review. One was from Representative Vicki Englund regarding Tesson Ferry and the other is a thank you letter from CAA of St. Louis County.
		Library Employee Update
		 Vector Communications has prepared a report for the Library that will be used to develop the new Strategic Plan. This will be a topic of discussion at the May Managers’ Meeting. We will report back to the Library Board later in the summer on the progress.
		  Ms. Sorth reported that she was interviewed in the St. Louis Business Journal for their segment called “How to . . .” This particular article was “How to Select an Architect.” The article is attached.
		 On May 14, 2014, Ms. Sorth was interviewed on “St. Louis On the Air”, Don Marsh’s radio program on St. Louis Public Radio. The live interview was about 30 minutes long and included public callers. Information about the interview is also available through St. Louis Public Radio’s website. The article is attached.
		Library Facility Update
		 Ms. Sorth reported that there were many upcoming facility projects that would be included later in the Board meeting agenda.
		Author Events
		Ms. Sorth reported on a number of notable author events in May and June.
		 Clara Moore, "Shop Like A Chef: A Food Lover's Guide to St. Louis Neighborhoods", Tuesday, May 20, 2:00 p.m. at Grand Glaize Branch, 1010 Meramec Station Rd, Manchester, MO 63021
		 Alan Weisman, "Countdown: Our Last, Best Hope for a Future on Earth" Winner of the Los Angeles Times Book Prize, Tuesday, May 20, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Craig Johnson, "Any Other Name: A Longmire Mystery", Thursday, May 22, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters - Auditorium
		 Decorated Veteran and Former Senator James Webb, "I Heard My Country Calling: A Memoir", Friday, May 23, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room
		 Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl, Tuesday, May 27, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Road, Ellisville, MO 63011
		 J. Courtney Sullivan, "The Engagements", Thursday, May 29, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Emily Giffin, "The One and Only", Friday, May 30, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Military Historian John C. McManus, "The Dead and Those About to Die, D-Day: The Big Red One at Omaha Beach", Monday, June 2, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Clara Moore, "Shop Like A Chef: A Food Lover's Guide to St. Louis Neighborhoods", Tuesday, June 3, 7:00 p.m. at Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011
		 Veteran War Correspondent Scott Anderson, "Lawrence in Arabia: Deceit, Imperial Folly, and the Making of the Modern Middle East", Tuesday, June 3, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Herman Koch, "Summer House with Swimming Pool", Thursday, June 5, 7:00 p.m. at Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Clara Moore, "Shop Like A Chef: A Food Lover's Guide to St. Louis Neighborhoods", Thursday, June 5, 7:00 p.m., Samuel C. Sachs Branch, 16400 Burkhardt Place, Chesterfield, MO 63017
		 The Ninth Annual Suspense Night, An Evening of Thrills and Chills, Wednesday, June 11, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium
		 Ridley Pearson, the bestselling Risk Agent suspense series, Saturday, June 14, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters - Auditorium
		The Library Board approved closing early on Tuesday, July 15 (at 5:00 p.m.) for the Chris Colfer event to be held in the reading room at Headquarters (Cunnane/Tai).
		OLD BUSINESS
		NONE
		NEW BUSINESS
		Matt Lakin, Training Department Coordinator, gave a Power Point presentation on the duties of the Training Department.  Mr. Lakin explained that there are 16 trainers with 130 years of combined experience.  All 20 locations are covered by a trainer with some trainers covering more than one branch. Formal classes are offered on topics such as Microsoft Office Suite, Optimal Resume and various other data bases.  The Trainers also offer Tech Talks and Device Advice, less structured, more open forums on topics not covered by classes.  Book a Trainer is an additional, very popular service offering individual instruction on how to use electronic devices and platforms such as Zinio, Hoopla and Overdrive.
		The Trainers also conduct various staff training sessions: new hire training, technical competencies training, Dealing with Difficult Customers, Diversity, and Preparing for Extreme Violence in the Workplace.
		The Board thanked Mr. Lakin for his informative presentation.
		South County Regional Branch Design
		Melissa Harlan with Christner Inc. gave an update on progress on the new South County branch. Christner is currently completing construction documents and finalizing furniture, carpet and paint color selections. Ms Harlan showed a slide presentation featuring renderings of the interior and exterior of the building. Ms. Harlan also mentioned that a Japanese maple tree planted at Tesson Ferry in memory of a staff member will be moved to the staff entrance at the new branch.
		Composition of Pension Board of Trustees
		Ms. Sorth explained that the previous Pension Board makeup included a voting position for the Assistant Director of Administration.  Since that position no longer exists, the administration recommended that it be replaced by the Manager of Finance.  The Pension Board has approved this change at the April 21, 2014 Pension Board meeting. The Library Board approved the amendment to the Pension Plan, drafted by Josh Richardson at McMahon Berger, adding the Manager of Finance to the Pension Board of Trustees (Tai/Kenyon).
		Branch Wi-Fi Internet Bandwidth
		Gib Van Cleve stated that usage of the Library’s public Wi-Fi Internet access continues to grow. The number of Wi-Fi enabled devices used by our customers increased 34% in the past year and Internet traffic increased 41%.  Mr. Van Cleve said that the Library needs more Internet bandwidth to meet the growing demand and the purchase of a fiber based solution was included in the 2014 Library Budget. After researching several options, providing Internet bandwidth directly to each branch for Wi-Fi users was determined to be the better and more cost effective solution.
		An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was issued seeking proposals from Internet Service Providers.  One response was received from Charter Business and it specifically meets the requirements of our bid by delivering low cost Internet bandwidth directly to each branch. This will allow us to transfer a significant portion of the Library’s Internet traffic, resulting in faster Internet service for public access and staff PCs that will remain on the existing fiber Internet connection.
		The Library Board approved the purchase of additional Internet bandwidth at the 19 branches from Charter Business for the monthly expense of $1,995 for a 12 month total of $23,940 (Cunnane/Sachs). Also required is the one time installation fee of $4,560. The 2014 budget included $8,000 per month for a fiber based solution with an annual cost of $96,000.
		Oak Bend Roof
		Eric Button requested Board approval for replacement of a portion of the Oak Bend Branch roof.  During a series of strong storms with high winds on February 21, 2014, a large section of the roof membrane failed causing leaks in several parts of the building. Emergency roof repairs on the most critical portion of the roof were completed just days after the storms and were covered by insurance.  Upon examination, it has been determined that the remainder of the roof must also be replaced due to its age and wear. An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was issued on April 7, 2014 and ten responses were received.
		The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Kmeier at a cost of $44,360 (Sachs/Cunnane). Funds will be taken from the 2014 Building Repair budget for this project.
		Samuel C. Sachs Parking Lot Repair
		Mr. Button explained that the Samuel C. Sachs Branch parking lot is the original lot as constructed in 2002. One section of the parking lot is badly deteriorated and another is in need of a replacement concrete slab to prevent further deterioration.  The area directly in front of the dumpsters is also in need of repair.  In addition, an island that divides the entrance lanes from the exit lanes makes for a potentially hazardous turn into the lot, especially during wet or icy weather.
		An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was issued on April 9, 2014 for the removal of the entrance island, the excavation and replacement of the base material and asphalt in the entrance and exit lanes, and the installation of a concrete pad in front of the dumpster area. Five responses were
		received.
		The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Asphalt Paving & Concrete at a cost of $26,570. Funds will be taken from the 2014 Building Repair budget for this project.  This work would precede the sealing and striping requested for the Samuel C. Sachs Branch in a separate memo to the Board (Cunnane/Sachs).
		SEAL AND STRIPE PARKING LOTS
		As part of the Library’s regular parking lot maintenance, all asphalt parking lots are sealed and re-striped approximately every two years. This year Headquarters and eight branches, Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Prairie Commons, and Sachs, are due for sealing and striping. An Invitation for Bid was issued on April 9, 2014 and three responses were received.
		The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Asphalt Paving & Concrete at a cost of $51,230. The Library budgeted $55,000 in the 2014 Building Repair budget for this project (Sachs/Cunnane).
		MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)—SACHS READING GARDEN
		Ms. Sorth reported that, in January, the Library Foundation received Library Board approval to
		oversee the development of a Reading Garden at the Sachs Branch using Foundation funds.
		The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) outlines the partnership between the Library and
		the Foundation to construct the Reading Garden. The MOU outlines specific dates for the Foundation to provide a completed proposed budget and prepared plans and specifications to the Library Board. Due to the length of time required to select and negotiate a contract with the architectural firm, the dates identified in the MOU need to be amended.
		The Library Board approved the recommendation of the First Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding drafted by Lashly & Baer. This approval will change the dates in the MOU from June 30, 2014 and May 30, 2014 to “as soon as the proposed budget and plans and specifications are available” (Cunnane/Tai).
		EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAM
		Human Resources Manager, Mary Arnhart presented a proposal to develop a Wellness Program for Library employees. Funds for a Wellness program were included in the 2014 Library Budget and Ms. Arnhart has worked with the Daniel and Henry Company, the Library’s Insurance Consultant, on a recommendation.
		According to the Wellness Council of America, the majority of health care costs are spent treating preventable chronic conditions. A Wellness Program would play a role in controlling healthcare costs and is also designed to facilitate positive behavior change resulting in healthier and more productive employees. Wellness companies are able to provide services that include biometric screenings, individual participant reports, employee communications, wellness coaching, seminars and aggregate reporting to the St. Louis County Library. Only full-time employees would be eligible to participate in this Wellness Program.
		The Daniel and Henry Company sent out a Request for Proposal (RFP) to companies that offered wellness programs and five proposals were received. Daniel and Henry recommended the selection of H & H Health Associates for the value of the services they provide. They are located in St. Louis and have been in business for more than 25 years.
		The Library Board approved the Library Administration’s recommendation in consultation with the Daniel and Henry Company to accept the proposal for a Wellness Program from H & H Associates for a total cost of $53,900(Kenyon/Sachs). The 2014 budget includes $56,000 for an employee wellness program.
		ADJOURN
		The Library Board approved the Motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene an Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1));(Cunnane/Sachs).
		Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Steve Sachs, Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon
		The meeting adjourned at 4:44pm.
		Respectfully submitted,
		_________________________                                              ______________________
		Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date