{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "9SGS7K700236",
  "date": "2015-04-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
	MEETING OF THE BOARD
	HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
	MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
	The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 20, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
	ATTENDANCE:
	Library Board Members:
	Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
	Edith Cunnane, Vice President
	Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
	Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
	Steve Sachs, Member
	ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
	Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Brain, Assistant Director, Adult & Support Services; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Kurt Cole, SM Wilson & Co.; Susan Pruchnicki, Bond Architects; Scott Kolath, Landmark; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; David LaGesse, LaVida Co. Comm; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer.
	Others Attending:
	Cindy A. Miller, Stephanie Nordmann, Nicole Clawson, Scott Kolath, Marie Conlin, Susie Bushnell, Jacob Eubanks, Aaron Eller, Anna Strackeljahn, Crystal Harris, Alaina Culbertson, Megan Coyle, Mary Jo Hartmann, Steve Hunter, Allison Wisniewski, Anna Huckeby, Sri Upadhya, Amy Hanaway, Deanna Dedeke, Maureen Willmann, Keir Haug, Colleen Hall, Trudy Williams, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood, Barb Reale, Christina Pryor, Hannah Komasinski, Conrad Rader, Anne Arthur, Kathy Wiese, Rebecca Clark, Ellen Lindberg, Stacy Berger, Julie Mangner, Annie Fuller, Kelly White, Gina Cochran, Jennifer Alexander, Mary Arnhart, Rachel Nowell, Marsha Ramey, Anna Schurk, Laura Kasak, Stacey Lewis, Matt Lakin, Lori Boschert, Tracy Fletcher, Colleen Hall, Trudy Williams, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood and Sandy Williams.
	PUBLIC COMMENT
	There were no public comments.
	MINUTES
	The Library Board approved the minutes from the March 23, 2015 meeting (Cunnane/Sachs).
	TREASURER'S REPORT
	Kris Mooney reported that $106,732 was received in March from the Highway 370 Missouri Bottom TIF District for the Redevelopment Project in the City of Hazelwood.
	The Library District made the annual contribution to the Library’s Employee Pension Plan. The contributed amount of $1,875,000 was approved by the Board at the March 2015 meeting.
	$24,510 was paid to Dell in March for replacement PC’s for patrons and staff system-wide. The purchase was made through a cooperative contract. The District also paid $9,993 to Toshiba for a new, multi-functional copier for the Communications Department. The PC’s and the copier were included in the 2015 budget.
	The Library District transferred funds to BOKF, the trustee of the Library’s Certificate of Participation funds, to pay the annual principal payment of $3,570,000 and the April interest payment of $985,226. These payments were made by our trustee on April 1, 2015 and are included in the 2015 budget.
	Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
	Total Construction in Progress for March 2015 was $819,392. The expenses included payments for:
	·         Grant’s View construction (payable to many sub-contractors) - $464,407
	·         The Construction Manager, S.M. Wilson - $128,263
	·         Architect’s fees payable to Bond Architects and Christner - $91,323
	·         The remaining dollars were largely spent for the services of the Facilities Master Plan Administrator and environmental professional services.
	The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sachs/Kenyon).
	DIRECTOR’S REPORT
	Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
	Library Update
	· Ms. Sorth reported that the dashboard report for April contains a variety of statistical information for the Library. This month, the report includes information about circulation, visits, outreach and PC and Wifi usage.  She said that it is important to note that even with four branches closed for most of March, circulation has only dropped 4% over March 2014. The report also includes information about the Library’s usage of branches during renovation, which includes 34% increase in circulation at Bridgeton Trails. The most popular items in the collection are also included.
	· Ms. Sorth announced a partnership opportunity with Lambert Airport. San Antonio Public Library has partnered with Overdrive and the San Antonio International Airport to allow passengers access to ebooks via a kiosk in the airport. Even passengers who are not library district residents are able to get a temporary library card to download a limited number of titles to their eReader.  Administration has discussed the possibility of providing this service with Rhonda Hamm Niebruegge, the Director of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport. If we proceed with this service, funds for the kiosk would be provided by the Library Foundation.
	 · Planning is underway for closures at the next five branches scheduled to be renovated beginning this fall. Those branches are Cliff Cave, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Prairie Commons and Sachs. Programming as well as the use of meeting rooms by outside organizations will cease at those locations on August 31. More information will be provided later in the meeting about the designs for these five branches.
	· Employees from Youth Services and the branches participated in the Greater St. Louis Area Home Educators’ Expo in April. Over 600 people visited the Library’s booth at the expo. The Library employees provided information about Library programs and services.
	 · Ms. Sorth said the Communications design team recently came up with a variety of new library card designs for adults. Library employees voted on their favorite and the top three designs were posted on the Library's Facebook page so the public could weigh in. Over 400 people voted, a new record for commenting on our Facebook page. The top two designs were the "I Love My Library" and "I Read Past My Bedtime," which will be available for new patrons later this spring along with our current card.
	· Ms. Sorth announced that the Youth Services staff has been asked to present a program about early literacy service provided by the Library at the UMSL Crucial Early Years Conference that will be held in October.
	· Plans for Summer Reading Club are underway. The Library was awarded a Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Summer Reading Program Grant through the Missouri State Library to once again fund videos to promote our Summer Reading Clubs.   Two videos were developed as a result of the grant and were viewed by the Board.  Marie Conlin will be presenting additional information about grants later in this meeting.
	· Eric Button, Barbara Brain and other Library employees attended a meeting with a representative from First Book. First Book-St. Louis is a chapter of the national nonprofit organization, First Book. Its mission is to provide new books to children in need, addressing one of the most important factors affecting literacy – access to books. Nationwide, First Book has distributed more than 100 million free and low-cost books to disadvantaged children and the programs that serve them. First Book will host a book party in Florissant in September where 200-300 children are expected to attend and will receive free books from the organization. Library staff will provide information about library services during the event and Jennifer Illardi, the Youth Services Specialist from the Florissant Valley Branch, will be featured as a celebrity reader during the story time portion of the program. The Foundation will be a sponsor of this event.
	· Ms. Sorth mentioned in previous reports the concern by libraries around the state regarding state funding. On April 3, 2015, Governor Nixon announced the release of $43 million of withheld funds which included the remaining amount of State Aid for public libraries and the full amount of the REAL program funds which provide Internet service to libraries through MOREnet. The state legislature is currently working on the 2016 budget and libraries around the state including St. Louis County Library are in contact with elected officials that are involved in that process.
	· There were additional mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the media. Those articles were distributed to the Board.
	· Ms. Sorth acknowledged a thank you letter from a patron at Weber Road regarding the summer lunch program from last year.
	· A number of photos from several programs and events were shown to the Board including: Weber Road Branch move, Beau Willimon event at HQ, Rock Road Branch move, CJ Box author event at HQ, Cliff Cave Community Garden, Painting for Peace in Ferguson event at HQ, Gift of Reading at Cliff Cave, Lewis and Clark Branch move and the Barney Frank author event at HQ.
	Library Employee Update
	· Library employees will be participating in wellness screenings beginning in May and continuing through June. Employees who do not participate will pay more each month toward the cost of their health insurance. The Library Board will review a proposal for this at the May Board Meeting.
	· Administration will be reviewing options for the new performance management module in the next several weeks.
	· Library patrons are visiting other branches during the current set of closures. We have received several compliments from patrons about Library employees at the branches they are visiting.
	Library Facility Update
	· Ten additional computers are now available at the Bridgeton Trails Branch. The set up of electric, data and furniture for public computer use was completed to accommodate the additional patrons at the branch due to closures at other locations.
	· Six additional computers are now available at the Florissant Valley Branch. The set up of electric, data and furniture for public computer use was completed to accommodate the additional patrons at the branch due to closures at other locations.
	· The Customer Connect Department at HQ experienced some water damage when a drain located in the women’s restroom in the floor above was clogged. Both the water damage and the drain have been fixed.
	· During the recent stormy weather, several branches experienced roof leaks including Eureka Hills, Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Tesson Ferry and Meramec Valley. During the same storm, both the HQ garage and the Mid-County garage flooded due to the inability of the drainage system to handle that amount of water in such a short period of time. Also, one of the bookmobiles experienced hail damage.
	 · There are several pending RFPs that the Library Board will be reviewing in the next several months including digital signage, signage and wayfinding, vending and self service scanning and faxing.
	Library Foundation
	·Plans for the Sachs Reading Garden are progressing. A pre-construction meeting was held on March 26th that Ms. Sorth attended along with Steve Hunter, Barbara Turkington and Jim Bogart. The groundbreaking ceremony will be held on April 21, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. Because of the longer than anticipated amount of time required to secure approval from MSD and the City of Chesterfield, the deadline for the project will be extended. This will be discussed later in the meeting.
	· Ms. Sorth announced that to celebrate the Gift of Reading in the Normandy School District, the Foundation will be purchasing backpacks, notebooks, books, crayons and pencils for the pre-kindergarten and kindergarten children to take home with them as their own. The backpacks will also include information on early literacy practices. In addition to getting the stuffed backpacks, the students at the Normandy Early Childhood Center will get a special story time to celebrate their reading accomplishments.
	 · The Foundation’s Program Committee recommended approval of seven mini-grants totaling $6940 submitted by Library employees for programming under the Foundation’s new program. All were approved by the Foundation Board.
	Author Events
	· Eric Greitens, “Resilience: Hard-Won Wisdom for Living a Better Life”, Wednesday, April 29, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	· Sharon Person and Carl Ekberg, Co-Authors of “St. Louis Rising: The French Regime of Louis St. Ange de Bellerive”, Thursday, April 30, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	· Christopher McDougall, “Born to Run”, Saturday, May 2, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters – Main Reading Room.
	 · James Bradley, “The China Mirage: The Hidden History of American Disaster in Asia”, Tuesday, May 5, 7:00 p.m. Library Headquarters –Auditorium.
	· Sandy Tolan, “Children of the Stone: The Power of Music in a Hard Land”, Thursday, May 7, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	· Sue Monk Kidd, “The Invention of Wings”, Friday, May 15, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters - Main Reading Room.
	 · Joseph Ellis, “The Quartet: Orchestrating the Second American Revolution”, 2015 Non-Fiction Selection, Tuesday, May 19, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters Auditorium.
	Dr. Tai joined the meeting at 3:40 p.m.
	OLD BUSINESS
	NONE
	NEW BUSINESS
	Presentation on the Next Five Branch Renovations
	Ms. Sorth introduced Susan Pruchnicki with Bond Architects who presented an overview of the upcoming renovations at the Cliff Cave, Natural Bridge, Oak Bend, Prairie Commons and Sachs branches.  Ms. Pruchnicki stated that the goals are to create a comfortable environment for patrons, improve workflow for staff, and accommodate the collections. While each building is unique, there will be common elements such as expanded children’s areas, enclosed quiet rooms, Teen spaces, study rooms, and vending/cafes. Significant upgrades are also needed in order to make restrooms ADA compliant. Since computer usage is very high at the Natural Bridge Branch, an after hour’s technology area is being planned that patrons will have access to after the library itself is closed. Ms. Pruchnicki also mentioned that windows will be added to the Cliff Cave Branch to provide views of the community garden and the entrance will be relocated to make it more visible and more accessible.
	Construction Update
	Steve Hunter reported that the Grant’s View building is 31% complete and Lewis and Clark is approximately 50% complete.  He stated that mechanical, electrical and plumbing rough in work has been completed but the project is behind schedule with the completion date now expected in late September.
	Mr. Hunter said that a September completion date is also expected for Lewis and Clark. Framing work is underway and installation of the Nichiha fiber-cement siding has begun. The stained glass windows from the existing building will be disassembled this week for placement in the new buildings. Mr. Hunter showed photographs of both projects to the Board.
	Mr. Hunter also discussed progress on the branch renovation projects. He stated that a solution is being sought for some water problems that were discovered at Indian Trails and mechanical, engineering and electrical rough in work was in progress at Jamestown Bluffs. He indicated that an August completion date is still anticipated for Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Weber Road.  Since the Rock Road building will receive two additions, completion of that project is not expected until October.
	Mr. Hunter also discussed diversity on the construction projects. He explained that the Library’s policy governs the inclusion of women or minority owned firms but that is not necessarily an indication of diversity in workforce participation. He stated that we would continue to monitor this issue very closely and would discuss the policy with the Library Board at a future date.
	Grant Update
	Marie Conlin presented a report on recent grant awards.  She stated that the Library Foundation was awarded a $6,000 grant from the Norman J. Stupp Foundation in conjunction with Commerce Bancshares Foundation to cover the cost of the decorative wrap for the new Sweet Reads bookmobile. Additional funds will be used to purchase Chromebooks as well as an iPad to bring Internet connectivity to the bookmobile.
	Additional grant awards included a $12,500 Library Services and Technology (LSTA) Summer Reading Program Grant to fund videos to promote our Summer Reading Clubs; another $5,480 LSTA Racing to Read to Go grant to provide early literacy training at an Area Resources for Community and Human Services (ARCHS) conference and fund the mailing of early literacy materials to in-home daycare providers; and a $1,000 first-time grant from Wells Fargo Advisors to assist with the Born to Read project that provides early literacy materials for newborns in four area hospitals.
	Dr. Beckwith complimented Ms. Conlin on the success of her grant application work.
	Recruiting Efforts
	Kristen Sorth presented the annual report on the staff complement at the St. Louis County Library. Ms. Sorth stated that the Board had received reports for 2014 and 2015 which included:
	1. A report entitled “List of Job Titles by Dept/Branch.
	2. A one page summary of the above mentioned report.
	3. A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race.”
	4. A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race and Gender.”
	5. A report entitled “St. Louis County Library – List of New Hires by Location.”
	6. A report entitled “Summary Comparison Percentage Chart.”
	Dr. Beckwith stated that there had been a significant increase in the hiring of minorities during his time on the Board. He also stated that while there are pockets of excellence throughout the system, he felt that improvement was still needed.
	Ms. Sorth said that she will continue to monitor the staff complement along with Human Resources.
	Contract for Construction - HVAC at Rock Road Renovation
	Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation to select AirMasters as the lowest and best bid for the HVAC Renovations at Rock Road.
	He reported that, on February 9, 2015, the Library Board had approved construction contracts for the first four renovations in Phase 1B. Each of the 15 work packages was intended to cover work for all four branches but, after the contracts had been awarded, an error in bidding was identified and reported by the selected HVAC contractor, R.F. Meeh.
	R.F. Meeh had provided a ‘by-branch’ breakdown in its original bid and, after consulting with Lashly Baer, they were offered the opportunity to continue work on the first three branches if they would release their contract for Rock Road where the error was made. (Rock Road has the longest timeline for completion and can best absorb the delay to rebid). R.F. Meeh accepted this compromise and the work for Rock Road was rebid. Bid materials for the HVAC work at Rock Road were posted on our website, on SM Wilson’s Smartbid site, published in the newspaper, and released to the public on March 19, 2015. Bids were opened in a public meeting at Headquarters on April 1.
	The Library Board approved administration’s recommendation for the selection of AirMasters for the HVAC work at Rock Road at $186,850 and authorized the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Cunnane/Tai).  AirMasters’ proposal includes 13.7% MBE participation and 5.6% WBE participation.
	Furniture and Shelving Selection
	Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation to accept the lowest and best bid on the furniture and shelving work packages for Grant’s View, Lewis & Clark, and the first four branch renovation projects (Indian Trails, Weber Road, Jamestown Bluffs, and Rock Road).
	Mr. Hunter stated that this was a complicated bid process which included six buildings, three separate design teams, fifteen furniture lines, and a dozen bid alternates. The bid packages were developed around open lines and released as a combined offering on March 23, 2015. Bidders were invited to bid on shelving, furniture, or both as long as the bids covered all six branches. The bid was posted in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, on our website, and on SM Wilson’s Smartbid site. Eighteen local furniture firms with an official Missouri M/WBE status were contacted directly. Bids were opened on April 9, 2015 in a public meeting at the Oak Bend Branch. Four qualified responses were received.
	The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to authorize the Director to enter into and execute the contracts listed below:
	- Color-Art for all the shelving and the Steelcase / Nurture / Coalese furniture items for $545,384.16.
	- CI Select for all other furniture at $1,121,724.09.
	 The combined cost for all shelving and furniture for these six branches is $1,667,108.25 (Sachs/ Kenyon).
	Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Sachs Reading Garden
	Barbara Turkington presented the Administration’s recommendation to approve two amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) regarding the Sachs Branch Reading Garden.
	Ms. Turkington reported that, according to the January 27, 2014 MOU between the St. Louis County Library Foundation and the Library Board of Trustees, the completion date for the Reading Garden was May 31, 2015. Due to the length of time required to obtain necessary approvals from the City of Chesterfield and MSD, it is necessary to request an extension to that completion date. The Sachs family has approved a new Reading Garden completion date of September 15, 2015. Two amendments drafted by Lashly & Baer were shared with the Board.
	The Library Board approved the Second Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding with the St. Louis County Library Foundation and the Second Amendment to the Development Agreement with Central Park Square, Inc. This approval changed the completion date for the Reading Garden at the Sachs Branch from May 31, 2015 to September 15, 2015 (Cunnane/Tai).
	Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon
	Steve Sachs abstained.
	ADJOURN
	A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Edith Cunnane; second by Elena G Kenyon.
	All other members responded by voice vote.
	Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Steve Sachs, Dr Chingling Tai, Edith Cunnane, Elena G Kenyon
	The meeting adjourned at 4:52 p.m.
	Respectfully submitted by:                                                     Date:
	______________________________                                    ___________________
	Chingling Tai, Treasurer