{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "ACMQRT69E02D",
  "date": "2016-08-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, August 15, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President, via telephone
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Michael Mulligan, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Eric Button, Assistant Director, Branch Services; Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Trudy Williams, Lauren Benson, Jennifer McBride, Paul Bayless, Donna Spaulding, Catherine Hill, Matt Lakin, Edie Isele, Michelle Bock, Sarah Brown, Susie Bushnell, Crystal Harris, Barb Reale, Deanna Davis, Rebecca Clarke, Megan Coyle, Stacey Lewis, Rachel Nowell, Kris Mooney, Marie Conlin, Lori Boschert, Stacey Berger, Maureen Willmann, Mary Arnhart, Julia Mangner, Roz Kohen, Jeff Krus, Tiffany Davis, Caleb Doyle, Allison Wisniewski, Ross Brand, Steve Hunter, Natalia Catlett, Laura Kasak, Erin Magner, Michael Cohen, Conrad Rader, Julie Cruise, Anna Gonzalez, Jake Eubanks, Emily Althoff and Sandy Williams.
Elena Kenyon moved that the Regular meeting close to hold the tax hearing. Edith Cunnane seconded. All voted in  approval.
Dr. Tai joined the Meeting
TAX HEARING
Ms. Sorth explained that Missouri State Statute requires that a public hearing be held prior to the Library Board setting the 2016 tax rates. The four subclasses of property are residential, agricultural, commercial, and personal property. As in prior years, the required legal notice must be published at least 7 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice appeared in the St. Louis Post Dispatch on Friday, August 5, 2016. On the same day, the notice was posted in all branches and headquarters.
Dr. Beckwith asked if there were any patrons wanting to address the Board regarding the tax rate.  No one came forward to address the Board.
The setting of the 2016 tax rates will take place at the September Library Board meeting. Updated post Board of Equalization assessments for 2016 will be used to set the tax rates and will be available in September. Tax rates must be set prior to October 1, 2016.
There were no patrons who wished to speak about the tax hearing. Mike Mulligan moved to close the Tax Hearing and resume the regular Board meeting.  Dr. Tai seconded.  All voted in approval.
THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING RESUMED
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the July 18, 2016 Board minutes (Cunnane/Tai).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that the Library made its second and final payment to H&H Health Associates for the Wellness Program in the amount of $14,190. The payment was for health screenings available to full time employees. Total costs for health screenings in 2016 were $47,810. These costs were included in the 2016 budget. Additionally, Daniel & Henry Co. was paid $14,500 for the annual brokerage fee for Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance for staff.
The Library District incurred $26,253 of expenses for branch programming for the 2016 Summer Reading Club. The Summer Reading Club ended on July 30th.
In July, Loyet Landscape Maintenance, Inc. was paid a total of $24,973 for landscaping services for 19 branches from June 1, 2016 through July 14, 2016. Also in July, the Library District purchased 25 computers from Dell for a total cost of $18,275. These computers will be used to replace older staff computers at Headquarters and to provide additional computers to staff at the other branches. These purchases were made through a cooperative contract and were included in the 2016 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for July 2016 was $2,775,049. The expenses included payments for:
	Branch renovation construction expenses (Samuel Sachs, Oak Bend, Natural
Bridge, Prairie Commons, Cliff Cave) - $2,436,322
	Design Costs for Phase II buildings (Daniel Boone, Bridgeton Trails, Florissant
Valley) - $98,678
	Branch renovation construction expenses (Rock Road, Jamestown Bluffs, Indian
Trails, Weber Road) - $80,764
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the dashboard report for August contains a variety of statistical information for the Library and shared the information with the Board.  The report includes information about circulation and visits in July.  With five branches closed for construction, July circulation is down 7.2%. Also noted on the dashboard are two circulation milestones.  Both Grant’s View and Daniel Boone have reached the one million circulation mark for 2016.  This is the earliest in the history of the Library that any branch has reached one million circulations.  This month, the report also includes statistics about Outreach, circulation of the We Stories Kits, and information on the Library’s Mobile App.
	Ms. Sorth announced that Stacey Lewis, Manager of Adult Programming, has been selected to present at the Missouri Library Association Conference in October.  Stacey will present two programs:  Connecting Across Distance:  Staff, Community and Collaboration and Building Community Partnerships for Adult Programming. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	The History and Genealogy Department has seen an increase in visits this year.  Compared to 2015, their visits are up 4.5%.  This is in part due to the new and popular Explore Tier 4 program where patrons may tour parts of the collection that are not regularly open to the public but contain over 13,000 family histories, school yearbooks, and materials for states west of the Mississippi.  (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library responded to the Pokemon Go craze by offering programs at many of the branches and HQ.  All Library branches were designated by Pokemon as either a Stop or a Gym which meant that game players were already coming to our locations.  Branches and HQ are capitalizing on the visits by hosting scavenger hunts, safaris and programs, and having interactive displays through August.  To date, 1,094 people have attended twenty-three events. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2.3)
	“We Are St. Louis” is a new adult series starting this month that explores the wide variety of identities, cultures, and ethnicities in St. Louis.  Ms. Sorth said the programs consist of history, dance, musical performances, and interactive workshops.  “We Are St. Louis” is funded by a grant from the Missouri State Library and will include six or seven programs including Mexican, African American, and Native American heritage among others.  The first program will take place on August 17 and will focus on German heritage.  Staff has been pleasantly surprised by the interest in the first program.  There are 200 people registered for the event. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2)
	Ms. Sorth said West Newsmagazine will host a community event at Vlasis Park in Ballwin to announce their 20th year commemorative edition.  They have graciously donated $5,000 to be spent on a feature in the children’s discovery room in the new Daniel Boone Branch.  This donation to the Library will be announced at the event on September 11.  In addition, the Library will have a tent at the event where we will promote programs and services and have activities for kids and adults. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Summer Reading Club ended on July 30.  Ms. Sorth said 47,090 adults, children and teens signed up for the program with 24,820 completions.  Both of these numbers are down from last year.  We are currently surveying participants and will be meeting to discuss the decline in participants as well as plans for next year. (Plan:  Increase Literacy 1.3)
	On August 19, the Library Administration will have a kickoff meeting with representatives from Interpersonal Frequency (IF), the company selected to re-design the Library’s website.  In addition to conducting a patron survey regarding the Library’s current website, IF has interviewed seven Library employees who interact regularly with the website or with patrons using the website.  IF was very pleased with the sample size of patrons that participated in the survey. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library was contacted by an employee from the Westminster Reference Library which is a public library in London.  The library was interested in the details of our telescope lending program and is in the process of applying for an educational grant from the Royal Astronomical Society for telescopes.  Lori Boschert, Manager of Circulation, responded to the inquiry with information about our loan rules and check-out, check-in, and waiting list procedures for the telescopes.  The employee from Westminster Reference Library recently returned Lori’s email with thanks and the news that they had received their grant which allows them to purchase five telescopes for their library. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the free lunch program offered at six library branches in partnership with Operation Food Search ended on Friday, August 12.  Nearly 17,000 have attended the program.  The Library has served 12,132 free meals as of Wednesday, August 10.  Of those, 4,042 attended pizza Fridays.  The Library served just over 6,000 meals in 2015.  The addition of pizza Fridays and the fig bars has been a great enhancement to this already successful program. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4)
	Library ConnectED is expanding and has been offered to all St. Louis County school districts.  So far, we have heard from the Affton, Hazelwood, and Normandy School Districts regarding the program that provides library cards for all students in a school district. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 3.1)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio, and television.  Ms. Sorth shared those articles with the Board. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of
	Ms Sorth also shared a number of great photos with the Board from several programs and events including: Mr. Stinky Feet at WR; Ready, Set, Go Science at Daniel Boone; Author Daniel Silva at HQ; STArt: Art Tells a Story at Rock Road; Water Play: Little Budding Artists at HQ; Flower Arranging at Thornhill and Potterpalooza at Daniel Boone.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Employee Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that during the health insurance renewal process, Aetna committed to assisting the Library with expanding our wellness program.  Mary Arnhart and Matt Lakin will be meeting with Aetna to discuss the program.
	The St. Louis County Library recently received two awards from the Missouri Library Association.  These awards will be presented at the Association’s conference in October.
		The Public Relations Achievement Award recognizes a Missouri library for outstanding public relations during the previous year. The Library was recognized for the public awareness campaign for Your Library Renewed. Ms. Sorth congratulated the Communications Department and all others involved in the campaign.
		Sandy Anderson, the Library’s Early Literacy Coordinator, received the Show Me Youth Services Award. This award recognizes individuals who serve and/or advocate for children or young adults and demonstrate notable and outstanding performance in planning, developing and promoting programs and services for children or teens. Ms. Sorth congratulated Sandy Anderson.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Sachs Branch opened on July 27.  Library employees were greeted by many happy patrons anxiously waiting outside to see their newly renovated branch.  Almost 2,000 people visited the branch on its opening day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	Ms. Sorth also reported that plans for the debt issuance for Phase 2 are underway.  The Library will issue the Certificates of Participation for Phase 2 of the Your Library Renewed capital improvement plan on September 19th at 10:00 a.m.  The Library Board will authorize the sale of the bonds later in this meeting. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	Phase 2 will begin in October with the closure of Daniel Boone, Bridgeton Trails and Florissant Valley.  The exact closure dates will be announced to the public in the next several weeks.  The Asian Center at Daniel Boone will be moving to the brand new Thornhill Branch which is part of Phase 2.  (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	The final four branches in Phase 1 will re-open over the next month:  Oak Bend on August 17, Natural Bridge on September 14, Cliff Cave on September 21, and Prairie Commons on September 28.  A ribbon cutting will be held at each branch.  There will be two ribbon cuttings at Natural Bridge – one for the branch and one for The Emerson Technology Center.  Ms. Sorth shared that representatives from Emerson will attend.  In addition, representatives from the St. Louis Cardinals and Fredbird will be in attendance to view the newly designed children’s space.  Also, St. Louis native and House of Cards creator Beau Willimon will attend to view the large meeting room named after him by the Library Board in appreciation for the Beau Willimon event held at HQ to raise money for North County programs and services. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	Since Phase 1 is ending soon, Ms. Sorth thanked the Board, the Library Administration, and the amazing Library employees for all of their hard work and dedication to this endeavor.  In addition, Ms. Sorth thanked all of the Library partners including Landmark, Lashly Baer, S.M. Wilson, Architects - KAI, Bond, and Christner and all of the countless construction trades and their employees for making this a success.
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Gala will be held at Headquarters on September 17.  Both sponsorships and table sales have been successful this year thanks to the hard work of Barbara Turkington, Jim Bogart, and the Foundation Board.  For the first time, the Gala has four presenting sponsors at the $10,000 level:  Emerson, Dowd Bennett, Landmark, and Bond Architects.
	The Library was notified that we are receiving two grants.  The Library applied to the Simon Foundation for support of the Summer Free Lunch program and is receiving $15,000.  We also applied to Wells Fargo for support of the Library ConnectED card campaign and are receiving $9,250 for that program.
Author Events
	Local Authors Celebrate St. Louis Noir, emceed by Scott Phillips, Tuesday, August 16, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Ridley Pearson, “White Bone”, Tuesday, August 23, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Susan Elizabeth Phillips, “First Star I See Tonight”, Wednesday, August 24, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Louise Penny, “A Great Reckoning”, Friday, September 2, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Main Reading Room. *(Doors open at 6:00 p.m.) INDIVIDUAL TICKET $32 (Admits ONE and includes one copy of “A Great Reckoning”) OR PACKAGE TICKET $38 (Admits TWO and includes one copy of “A Great Reckoning”).
	Mary Karr, “The Art of Memoir”, Thursday, September 8, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Colson Whitehead, “The Underground Railroad”, Wednesday, September 14, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Joseph Heathcott and Angela Dietz, “Capturing the City: Photographs from the Streets of St. Louis, 1900–1930”, Thursday, September 15, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
	Margaret Peterson Haddix, “Children of Exile”, Friday, September 16, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter reported on the anticipated completion of the buildings currently under construction. Mr. Hunter said Natural Bridge would open September 14, Cliff Cave will open September 21, and Prairie Commons on September 28. Bids are due on Phase 2 construction package. Brinkman construction is joining us. The first three branches in Phase 2, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley and Bridgeton Trails, will close in October. Mr. Hunter stated that we are working on a schematic design for Mid-County, and the Library can stay on that same site. In addition, Mr. Hunter shared that we will begin to discuss the construction projects for Meramec Valley, Grand Glaize and Thornhill.
MOVING COMPANY FOR PHASE 2 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation on Moving Company Services for the seven construction projects in Phase 2 of the Facilities Master Plan.
The Library District is scheduled to begin Phase 2 of the Your Library Renewed projects in fall of 2016. A professional moving service is needed to relocate materials from the seven branches in Phase 2 (Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Mid-County, Meramec Valley, and Thornhill) to our leased storage facility, and then back to the new spaces when complete. Library staff will provide guidance to the movers but we do not have the staffing or equipment to manage the physical moves.
An Invitation for Bid was posted on July 20, 2016 via a newspaper ad, website posting, and direct e-mail to several known firms. The State of Missouri’s on-line directory does not list any W/MBE certified movers in the St. Louis area.
Bids were due on August 3, 2016 and opened in a public meeting at Headquarters. During the bid process, questions were received from multiple bidders. However, at the time of the bid opening there was only one response: Dodge Moving and Storage $104,868.00
Dodge Moving and Storage was previously selected as the mover for the Phase 1 projects in December, 2014. Their bid for Phase 2 compares favorably to their bid for Phase 1. Their proposed fee for Phase 2 is 8% higher per branch, but the size of collections in the Phase 2 branches is 5.7% larger. Additionally, we have asked the Phase 2 mover to provide their own carts; in Phase 1, the Library supplied the carts.
The  Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to select the lowest and best bid from Dodge Moving and Storage to provide moving services for the seven construction projects in Phase 2 for $104,868.00 and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Cunnane/Mulligan).
AMENDMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING CONTRACT
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation to approve the first amendment to the existing contract with Geotechnology, Inc. for Environment Testing.
At the July 29, 2013 Board meeting, Geotechnology was unanimously approved as the provider of Environmental Testing Services for the Your Library Renewed program. At that time, Administration:
“determined that Geotechnology is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Geotechnology: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and (e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed.”
A three-year contract with Geotechnology, Inc. was executed on August 30, 2013.
Although this contract is ending, there is a continuing need for environmental testing for the upcoming Phase 2 and Phase 3 projects. Administration is pleased with the work Geotechnology performed during Phase 1. In addition, Geotechnology has agreed to maintain its pricing for all tests for the duration of the Your Library Renewed program. For these reasons, Administration believes the best course of action is to amend the contract with Geotechnology for a three year extension.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to approve the first amendment to the existing contract with Geotechnology, Inc. to extend the term an additional three years, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute that amendment (Kenyon/Mulligan).
2016 SERIES CERTIFICATES OF PARTICIPATION
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation to approve the resolution authorizing the Offering for Sale of Certificates of Participation, series 2016.
Administration has been working with the Library Attorneys and Financial Advisor to finalize the documents for the Library’s $79 million Certificates of Participation (COPs) issuance.
The approval of the resolution will authorize the Financial Advisor, Piper Jaffray & Co., to proceed with the use and distribution of the Notice of Sale and the Preliminary Official Statement in connection with the public sale of the Certificates. Additionally, it will authorize Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Special Tax Counsel, to proceed with the preparation of all legal proceedings necessary for the sale and delivery of the Certificates. The sale will commence on Monday, September 19, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. and is expected to generate $79 million.
Attorneys for Gilmore & Bell, P.C., Mark Grimm and Erick Creach, have prepared the memorandum outlining the documents for the Library Board’s review and approval.
The Library Board approved the recommendation of the resolution authorizing the Offering for Sale of Certificates of Participation, series 2016 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
LIBRARY BOARD ORGANIZATION
Ms. Sorth stated that, according to the Library Board’s By-Laws, officers of the Board need to be elected at the August meeting to serve for the next twelve months.
Director Kristen Sorth asked for a nomination for Board President.
Lynn Beckwith was nominated for President by Edith Cunnane, seconded by Elena G Kenyon.  All voted in approval.
Edith Cunnane was nominated for Vice President by Chingling Tai, seconded by Mike Mulligan.  All voted in approval.
Chingling Tai was nominated for Secretary by Edith Cunnane, seconded by Elena Kenyon. All voted in approval.
Elena Kenyon was nominated for Treasurer by Edith Cunnane, seconded by Mike Mulligan.  All voted in approval.
2017 BOARD MEETING DATES
Ms. Sorth presented the 2016 Library Board and Pension Board meeting dates. Board approval of these dates is requested each August for the subsequent year so that meeting rooms can be reserved.
 Library Board                                    Pension Board
January - * No meeting           January 23
February 6                               March 20
March 20                                 April 17
April 17                                   July 17
May 15                                    October 16
June 19
July 17
August 21
September 18
October 16
November 20
December 18
Unless otherwise stated, all meetings will be held at Headquarters per the Library Board ByLaws and will start at 3:30 p.m. The Tax Hearing is held in August each year. The Pension Board is scheduled to meet at 2:45 p.m. unless otherwise noted.
The Library Board approved the Administration recommendation of the 2017 Board meeting dates and locations as presented (Mulligan/Cunnane).
ADJOURNMENT
Edith Cunnane made a motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); legal matters (Section 610.021(1)); and personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13)). Elena Kenyon seconded.
The Library Board Meeting adjourned at 4:13 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,                                                                      Date
_________________________________                                          ___________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary