{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AEDLNH571F80",
  "date": "2016-10-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, October 17, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Mr. Michael Mulligan, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Construction and Facilities; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Scott Kolath, Landmark Construction Management; Andy McDonell, Jeremiah King and Tom Spann, Brinkmann Constructors;  and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Gina Sheridan, Barb Reale, Roz Kohen, Lisa Haddox, Matt Lakin, Stephanie Nordmann, Marie Conlin, Tracy Fletcher, Andrea Johnson, Aaron Eller, Kathy Wiese, Laura Kasak, Michelle Sawicki, Tiffany Davis, Stacey Lewis, Stacy Berger, Anna Gonzalez, Annie Fuller, Julie Cruise, Scott Holl, Donna Spaulding, Rebecca Clarke, Lori Boschert, Paul Bayless, Anne Bradley, Jennifer McBride, Jeff Krus, Megan Coyle, Emily Althoff, Catherine Hill, Alaina Culbertson, Jennifer Alexander, Nicole Clawson, Keir Haug, Ross Brand, Deanna Davis, Marsha Ramey, Anne Arthur, Allison Wisniewski, Julia Mangner, Michael Cohen, Cindy Schultz and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 19, 2016 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no comments from the public.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that the Library District received a Technology Ladder Grant in the amount of $10,416 to help offset the costs incurred in the redesign of the Library’s website. The Board approved the use of Interpersonal Frequency as the design consultant in the June 2016 meeting.
Additionally, the Library District received other grants including funds from the Library Foundation, $50,000 for the Emerson After-hours Technology Center at Natural Bridge, $25,000 for the Beau Willimon Meeting Room at Natural Bridge, $10,000 for the Summer Reading Club, and $9,250 for the ConnectEd Library Card Campaign.
The Library District paid $45,250 to Ceridian Employer Services for implementation fees for Ceridian Dayforce HCM. The upgrade to Ceridian Dayforce will streamline the payroll, pension, and human resources processes into one application and provide additional functionality. This purchase was approved by the Board at the October 10, 2014 meeting.
The Library District made the second annual interest payment on the Certificates of Participation issued in April of 2013. The payment amount totaled $839,553.
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's report subject to audit (Cunnane/Mulligan).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
· Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for October contains a variety of statistical information for the Library and shared the report with the Board. The report includes information about circulation, visits, and programming in September. This month, the report also includes statistics on the number of new items added to the collection in September, as well as the percentage of these new items that are checked out within the first 30 days they are added.
 · Ms. Sorth announced that We Are St. Louis is a new adult series that explores the wide variety of identities, cultures and ethnicities in St. Louis. The programs consist of history, dance, musical performances, and interactive workshops. We Are St. Louis is funded by a grant from the Missouri State Library. Fifty-two people attended the second event which explored Mexican Heritage on September 21 at the Rock Road Branch. On October 12, 51 people attended a program on African American heritage at the Lewis & Clark Branch. The next program explores American Indian Heritage and will be held on December 12 at HQ. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2)
 · The Library will be partnering with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. on a program in March that will include an author event with Rebecca Erbelding, archivist and curator at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. More information will be provided as we get closer to the event. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community)
 · The Library has launched a new local music project called Listen Up STL. The project invites local musicians to upload their work to the Library’s website where it will be available for streaming to library patrons. To date, we have received 91 submissions from local artists covering a large array of music. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community)
 · Ms. Sorth reported that Youth Services coordinated a large event at HQ on Saturday, September 24 that focused on early literacy. The Little Readers Festival featured PNC Bank's Mobile Learning Adventure, which had stations for play and engagement for children ages 0-5. In addition, the Library had many activities such as the Bubble Bus and Juggling Jeff. A number of community partners, including Ready Readers, Center for Hearing and Speech, and Parents as Teachers, were also in attendance. A bookmobile was used for checking out books and for hearing and vision screenings for children by the Center for Hearing and Speech. The event was a huge success with 3,120 adults and children attending the event. The Center for Hearing and Speech screened 30 children for both hearing and vision and identified 6 children with some type of hearing/vision problems. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
 · The Library was selected by the Missouri Humanities Council for a partnership with the National Archives on an exhibit commemorating the 225th anniversary of the Bill of Rights. We will also apply to a community grants program designated for this exhibit that will fund programming events related to the anniversary. The display and programming will take place from mid-December through February of 2017. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community)
· Ms. Sorth shared that New in the Lou is a new series that provides an inside look at the innovations taking place in the St. Louis Metro area. The series will showcase advances in technology, entertainment, and local talent. The first event takes place on November 2 with South African artist Mohau Modisakeng. He will discuss his work and influences, as well as his upcoming exhibition at Laumeier Sculpture Park. Adult Program Manager Stacey Lewis addressed the Board with more information about the new program. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community)
· The Library is partnering with the Construction Forum Education Foundation on a program for teens about careers in the construction industry at four library branches during November. Each program will include a panel of speakers comprised of trade labor apprentices and a wide variety of construction industry professionals. Programs will take place at Grant’s View, Jamestown Bluffs, Rock Road and Eureka Hills. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community)
 · There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Ms. Sorth shared those articles with the Board. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
· Ms. Sorth shared a number of photographs with the Board from several programs and events including: We Are STL: Mexican Heritage at Rock Road, Kindergarten Prep at Lewis and Clark, the Little Readers Festival at HQ, author Candice Millard at HQ, and STArt: Family Matters at HQ. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Employee Update
 · Library Managers and Assistant Managers have started working on the performance evaluation process. This year we have a new form which is part of the upgrade to Ceridian’s Dayforce product that the Board previously approved. The payroll and performance evaluation upgrade is complete and the recruiting module will be the next upgrade. This was a tremendous amount of work and thanks to Mary Arnhart and the entire HR department for their efforts.
Library Construction and Facility Update
· Ms. Sorth reported that the Cliff Cave Branch opened on September 21. Library employees were greeted by patrons that were very happy to be back. 2,140 people visited the branch on its opening day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· The Prairie Commons Branch opened on September 28. Patrons were waiting outside and were thrilled to see their newly renovated branch with its spectacular children’s space. 1,057 people visited the branch on its opening day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
 · The 11 new and renovated branches have registered a total of 17,806 new patrons since each of them opened, which is an increase of 43%. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
 · The financing for Phase 2 closed on Thursday, September 29, 2016. Phase 1 of construction is complete and we begin Phase 2 with the closure of Bridgeton Trails on October 22, Florissant Valley on October 29, and Daniel Boone on November 5. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
 · As with Phase 1 and Phase 2, the Library is currently conducting surveys of Library patrons and staff regarding their thoughts about a new HQ facility. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· The Library has created audio visual kits (AV) that are available to patrons at all Phase 1 locations to be used with AV equipment in the meeting rooms. The kit includes cables, a microphone, a clicker for presentations, and wireless connection equipment. The kits may not leave the library and can only be checked out for one day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· Ms. Sorth said that U.S. House of Representative Ann Wagner has requested a tour of Grant’s View. The branch staff and Ms. Sorth will welcome her on October 18.
Library Foundation
· The Foundation held their annual donor appreciation luncheon on October 3 at HQ. Both the Arthur and Helen Baer Foundation and PNC Bank were recognized for their continued support of the Library Foundation. Joseph Lelyveld, a Pulitzer Prize winning reporter and editor at the New York Times, spoke about his book regarding the last months in the life of President Franklin Roosevelt. This was the largest attendance at a donor appreciation event with 63 people in attendance.
· As Ms. Sorth previously mentioned, the Gala was a huge success. Ms. Sorth shared pictures of the Gala with the Board.
 · A donation from Energizer has allowed the Library to expand the Gift of Reading program to the Normandy Middle School. This month, the principal brought the students to the Natural Bridge Branch where they received their books and attended a Book Talk by the Youth Services Specialist. (Plan: Increase Literacy)
 · Ms. Sorth announced that the Library’s 1000 Books Before Kindergarten program will be mentioned in the Old Newsboys Day special edition newspaper that is "sold" on street corners to raise funds for the Old Newsboys Day Foundation. For the last several years, area high school students have written articles about some of the groups that receive grants from the foundation. This year the Library was selected. Ms. Sorth was interviewed by a student from Kirkwood High School. Around 100,000 of these newspapers are distributed on the Thursday before Thanksgiving in November. Foundation Board Members will be selling papers near Grant’s View.
Author Events
 · Stuart Gibbs, “Spy Ski School”, Monday, October 17, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
 · Dan and Connie Burkhardt with Bryan Haynes, “Growing Up With the River”, Wednesday, October 19, 6:30 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Patricia Polacco, “Because of Thursday”, Monday, October 24, 6:30 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
 · H.W. Brands, “The General vs. the President: MacArthur and Truman at the Brink of Nuclear War”, Wednesday, October 26, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Peter Cozzens, “The Earth is Weeping: The Epic Story of the Indian Wars for the American West”, Tuesday, November 1, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· T.C. Boyle, “The Terranauts”, Thursday, November 3, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Middle Grade Reader Showcase with Eoin Colfer, Jonathan Stroud and Ridley Pearson, Wednesday, November 9, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· An Evening with Johnny Heller, Thursday, November 10, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
WINDOW CLEANING
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation for Window Cleaning services for all branches.
On August 29, 2016 Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for twice-annual window cleaning across all branches. Responses were due September 12, 2016. Two firms responded. American National Skyline was selected as the best qualified respondent with the lowest reasonable fee. The lowest and best bid of $7,630 compares favorably to the last 12-month expense of $13,220.
The Library Board approved  Administration’s recommendation to select American National Skyline to provide window cleaning services to the Library District for all 20 branches for the amount of $7,630 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Cunnane/Tai).
CONTRACTS AND CONTINGENCY FOR CONSTRUCTION OF PHASE 2A BRANCH RENOVATIONS
Mr. Hunter reported that final construction documents for the first three renovation projects in Phase 2A of the Facility Master Plan (Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, and Florissant Valley) were delivered by Bond Architects on August 5, 2016. The work was organized into 16 separate work packages and released for bid on August 15, 2016. The bid notice was placed in the St. Louis American and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, on the SLCL website, and on smartbidnet.com. Plans were made available through MOKAN, McGraw Hill Online Plan Room, Cross Rhodes Reprographics, Reed Construction Data, and at the Brinkmann Constructors office.
In addition, more than 50 minority-owned firms were contacted directly via email and notified of the bid opportunity. Pre-bid / Outreach meetings were held in each of the three branches on August 18 & 19. Bids were due September 1, 2016 and opened that day in a public meeting at the Daniel Boone Branch. 34 qualified bids were received. Multiple responses were received in 10 of the 16 work packages. Six work packages had only a single response.
Brinkmann interviewed all of the selected bidders and has expressed confidence in each bidder’s pricing and scope. Administration is satisfied that the responses of the selected bidders in each work package represent a fair value. The individual work packages and the qualified responses to each are listed below. There is a separate recommendation for Phase 2A contingency.
The Library Board was asked to approve each individual work package. By approving these, the Board authorized the Director to enter into and execute the completed contracts as they are prepared.
In accordance with the Library’s bid procedure, The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the lowest and best bid for each work package:
Work Package #1 – Demolition / Abatement
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Envirotech at $456,000(Mulligan/Cunnane).
Work Package #2 – Cast-in-Place Concrete & Flatwork
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from C. Rallo at $155,000 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #3 – Masonry
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from John Smith Masonry at $129,986 (Tai/Mulligan).
Work Package #4 – Structural Steel
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from C. Rallo at $465,000 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #5 – Roofing & Sheet Metal
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Bade Roofing at $242,754 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
Work Package #6 – Glass & Glazing
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Koch Corporation at $1,018,710 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
Work Package #7 – Drywall, Framing, Acoustical Ceiling
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from George Weis at $1,703,000 Kenyon/Tai).
 Work Package #8 – Tile & Flooring
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Flooring Systems Inc. at $738,760 (Mulligan/Tai).
 Work Package #9 – Painting
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dannix Painting at $93,404 (Tai/Kenyon).
Work Package #10 – Fire Suppression
The library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Bi-State Fire Protection at $238,300 (Cunnane/Tai)
 Work Package #11 – Plumbing
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Eagle Plumbing at $589,000 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #12 – HVAC
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Rock Hill Mechanical at $2,034,000 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
 Work Package #13 – Electrical
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Briner Electric at $2,443,388 (Mulligan/Cunnane).
Work Package #14 – Technology
The Library Board approved the lowest and best bid from C I Select at $361,019 (Mulligan/Cunnane).
 Work Package #15 – Sitework
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Kozeny Wagner at $1,238,400 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
 Work Package #16 – General Works
 The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Waterhout at $1,885,000 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
Contingency
The contracts presented above total $13,791,721. The Library Board approved of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $1,500,000. This amount includes funds for 1) permitting and 2) unforeseen conditions, design errors and owner requested changes. The spending of this contingency fund will be approved by Kristen Sorth, Library Director or Steve Hunter, Assistant Director as needed during the execution of the project. The accounting of the expenditures against the contingency fund will be regularly reported back to the Library Board.
The Library Board approved of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $1,500,000. ( Cunnane/Tai).
DIVERSITY GOALS – BRANCH RENOVATIONS AT BRIDGETON TRAILS, DANIEL BOONE, & FLORISSANT VALLEY
Kristen Sorth reported that the Library Board reviewed the 16 work packages for renovations at three branches – Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, and Florissant Valley. The bid process involved a review by the Library, Landmark, and Brinkmann Constructors as to whether the packages meet the diversity goals of 15% for minority-owned businesses (MBE) and 5% for women owned businesses (WBE) outlined in the Library’s Diversity Statement, which is attached. Good faith efforts went beyond those required in the Library’s policy and included advertisements, notifications, conversations, meetings, and outreach that began in the summer and continued to the day of the public bid opening.
Ms. Sorth provided the Board with a letter from Brinkmann describing these efforts in more detail. The work packages were released on August 15, 2016 with responses due on September 1, 2016. Minority goals were included in the bid documents. Ms. Sorth also shared a Bid Summary of the responses received including the MBE and WBE participation levels for each selected bidder and the Bid Analysis which has information from all responses.
All bidders were required to submit a Good Faith Effort Statement detailing their attempts to include diversity in their bid proposals. The total percent of construction awarded to minority-owned businesses is 7.9% and the total amount for women-owned businesses is 18.9%.
Although the Administration is disappointed by the MBE percentage, Kristen Sorth shared that a significant Good Faith Effort was made by all involved to encourage minority participation on this project. In addition, this percentage has continued to increase for the duration of the program. In Phase 1A, MBE firms were awarded 6.0% of the total contracts. In Phase 1B this rose to 7.1%, and now to start Phase 2 the level is 7.9%.
The effort regarding minority participation will not end here. The Library, Landmark, and Brinkmann will continue to emphasize the Library’s Diversity Statement and will monitor and encourage minority workforce participation which goes above and beyond the goals of the Library’s policy on this and all future projects.
 ADJOURNMENT
A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Mrs. Cunnane and seconded by Mrs. Kenyon.  All members approved with voice consent.
The meeting adjourned at 4:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
__________________________________                            _________________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date