{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "ADBQD468BF30",
  "date": "2016-09-19T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, September 19, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Mr. Michael Mulligan had an excused absence.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Construction and Facilities; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Scott Kolath, Landmark Construction, Management; Erick Creach, Gilmore & Bell, Mark Grimm, Gilmore & Bell, and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Edie Isele, Amy Hanaway, Julie Cruise,  Laura Kasak, Michael Cohen, Michelle Boch, Emily Althoff, Michelle Sawicki, Anne Arthur, Barb Reale, Cindy Schultz, Andrea Johnson, Natalia Catlett, Stacey Lewis, Catherine Hill, Rebecca Clarke, Roz Kohen, Trudy Williams, Stacy Berger, Ross Brand, Sarah Wood, Megan Coyle, Matt Lakin, Lauren Benson, Kathy Wiese, Crystal Harris, Paul Bayless, Stephanie Nordmann, Donna Spaulding, Alaina Culbertson, Jake Eubanks, Deanna Davis and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the August 15, 2016 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
The Library Board approved the August 31, 2016 minutes from the telephone conference call meeting (Cunnane/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no comments from the public.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in August, the St. Louis County Collector of Revenue collected $47,203 in tax revenue for the Library District. However, $168,282 in tax revenue was refunded to taxpayers. The refunds are due to taxpayers who have protested their assessed valuations in prior years, usually through tax appeal companies, and won. In these cases, the Library District returns prior revenue earned. Due to the return of revenue being greater than collected revenue, the Library District didn’t receive any cash disbursement this month. The deficit of $121,079 will be deducted from the next receipt of tax revenue.
The Library District purchased a ST Imagining ViewScan III digital microfilm for $10,030 from Tipton Systems to replace a unit that was purchased in 2002. The new machine will join two other digital readers and nine traditional readers in the History & Genealogy Department.
 The Library District also purchased seven Early Literacy workstations from AWE for a total cost of $18,446. Five of the workstations were installed at Lewis and Clark, Grant’s View, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, and Rock Road; the two additional workstations will be kept in inventory for replacements as needed. This purchase came from a single source.
The Library District spent $37,422 for the renewal of several annual maintenance agreements. The renewals included:
	KACE Software  and Smart Money Manager
Construction in Progress – Total Construction in Progress for August 2016 was $2,887,966. The expenses included payments for:
	Branch renovation construction expenses (Samuel Sachs, Oak Bend, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Cliff Cave) - $1,100,348
	Design Costs for Phase II buildings (Daniel Boone, Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley) - $436,939
	Furniture & Fixtures for all phase 1b(b) buildings - $415,031
	Technology expenses ( Samuel Sachs, Oak Bend, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Cliff Cave): $89,955
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's report subject to audit (Kenyon/Cunnane).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
· Ms. Sorth shared the dashboard report for September with the Board and explained that it contains a variety of statistical information for the Library and is attached. The report includes information about circulation, visits, and PC usage in August. August circulation is up 2%, visits are up 8%, program attendance is up 14%, and PC usage is up 10%. This month, the report also includes statistics about the Free Summer Lunch program. 12,513 meals were served to children during the summer with 4,315 receiving pizza on Fridays.
 · Ms. Sorth announced that “We Are St. Louis” is a new adult series that explores the wide variety of identities, cultures and ethnicities in St. Louis. The programs consist of history, dance, musical performances, and interactive workshops. “We Are St. Louis” is funded by a grant from the Missouri State Library and will include six or seven programs including Mexican, African American, and Native American heritage among others. 215 people enjoyed the first program focusing on German heritage. The second event will explore Mexican Heritage and takes place on September 21 at the Rock Road Branch. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2)
 · A collection of new bookmarks available at the branches and Headquarters will feature the work of eight young St. Louis artists. The art was submitted as part of St. Louis County Library’s Design a Bookmark contest which accepted submissions in four age categories. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2.3)
· Ms. Sorth reported that Baby Sensory Play Time is a new program, which started at Headquarters and is now presented at Mid-County. It is structured as a hands-on play time dedicated to helping babies, ages 0-24 months, build a vocabulary of sensory experiences. The program has been well received and may be expanded to additional locations. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
 · The Library will participate in an event in Florissant called the Largest Book Party. Several different staff will present story times and will promote other library literacy efforts such as 1,000 Books before Kindergarten and the Little Readers Festival. The Library Foundation is one of the event sponsors. Several hundred children are expected to attend. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1)
 · Ms. Sorth said the Library received notification from the St. Louis County Prosecutor's office that Samantha Denny was found guilty of theft from the Library. She was originally sentenced to seven years in prison, but that was suspended in favor of her serving probation and making restitution. We received a check for the initial payment. Denny has been ordered to make monthly restitution payments to the Library or risk a violation of her probationary terms. In addition, Samantha Denny has been ordered to have no contact with St. Louis County Library property during the five year term of her probation. Finance will be tracking the restitution payments and we will alert the County Prosecutor if payments are not met as scheduled in her terms of probation.
· Ms. Sorth reported that the curb-side service at the Grand Glaize Branch is going well. During the first month 14 customers used the service. A total of 26 items were picked up and 7 items were returned. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 3.1)
· Ms. Sorth announced that in October, she will attend a meeting of key stakeholders at the 24:1 Excel Center. The meeting will include updates of the latest work of 24:1 and an overview of their approach to community resource management and community engagement. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2)
· Ms. Sorth shared a number of pictures with the Board from several programs and events including: Kindergarten Prep at Mid-County, Pollinator Palace at Grant’s View, author Louise Penny at Headquarters, Saturday Explorers at Weber Road, STArt; Cupcake Decorating at Rock Road, and author Colson Whitehead at Headquarters. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Employee Update
 · The 2017 Library Holiday Schedule was shared.
 · Ms. Sorth said the Library District has received the Library’s Experience Mod rating for Worker’s Compensation. It is a .94. This number represents either a credit or debit that is applied to our workers’ compensation premium. A rating of 1.0 is considered to be the industry average. An Experience Mod under 1.0 is a Credit Mod, which means losses are better than expected, resulting in a premium discount. The Library has a Safety Committee which reviews all accidents and incidents. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
· Flu shots have been scheduled for Library employees on October 6 and 7.
· Eric Button, Kris Mooney, Jennifer McBride, and Ms. Sorth will attend the 2016 Annual Forum of the Urban Libraries Council from October 5 – 7, 2016. Ms. Sorth is scheduled to present at the conference on the role of libraries in creating healthy, sustainable communities. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
 Library Construction and Facility Update
· The Oak Bend Branch opened on August 17. Patrons were waiting outside and were thrilled to see their newly renovated branch. Almost 1,000 people visited the branch on its opening day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· The Natural Bridge Branch opened on September 14th. Library employees were greeted by many happy patrons anxiously waiting outside to see their newly renovated branch. Almost 1,000 people visited the branch on its opening day. There were three separate celebrations that morning. First, there was a ribbon cutting for the branch and to acknowledge the St. Louis Cardinals themed children’s center named after former Library Board Member, Jean Weinstock. Then there was another ribbon cutting for The Emerson Technology Center and finally an unveiling of a poster acknowledging the donation for the large meeting room, which resulted from an event featuring House of Cards creator Beau Willimon. Representatives from Emerson, the St. Louis Cardinals, and Cardinal’s Care (including Fredbird, the Weinstock Family, and Beau Willimon) were on hand to celebrate the day. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· The final two branches in Phase 1 will re-open over the next two weeks: Cliff Cave on September 21 and Prairie Commons on September 28. A ribbon cutting will be held at each branch. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· The basement at Cliff Cave has been leaking due to several issues with the foundation. The branch will open this week but a solution for the issue is being discussed.
· Several additional furniture items have been delivered to Phase 1 branches. These include additional display fixtures and children's discovery tables. The discovery tables offer a train table, a Lego table, and a light box table. Accessories for all three table tops have been purchased. These additions have been very well received by our youngest patrons. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 2.1)
· The Grant’s View Branch was featured in the 2016 Library Design Showcase in the September/October 2016 edition of American Libraries, the magazine of the American Library Association. Fifteen libraries were celebrated that are “shining examples of innovative architectural feats that address user needs in unique, interesting and effective ways.” In addition, Christner Inc. received a Merit Award for Interior Design from the AIA St. Louis Chapter for the design of the Grant’s View Branch. The award jury commented, “The architects created a transparent and welcoming interior that may enable many great thoughts” and “This acre-sized neighborhood public library is flooded with daylight and suggests a beacon of knowledge.” The award was presented to Christner at an event on September 15th. Ms. Sorth and Steve Hunter attended the event. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· Ms. Sorth said that plans for the debt issuance for Phase 2 are underway. The Library issued the Certificates of Participation for Phase 2 of the Your Library Renewed capital improvement plan earlier this morning at 10:00 a.m. The Library Board will authorize the Resolution later in this meeting. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· Phase 2 will begin in October with the closure of Bridgeton Trails and Florissant Valley. Daniel Boone will close on November 5. The Asian Center at Daniel Boone will be moving to the brand new Thornhill Branch which is part of Phase 2. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
· There have been several recent safety and security incidents at the Lewis & Clark Branch. As a result, the Library has placed an additional camera on the building and will also add a second off-duty St. Louis County police officer Monday – Thursday, 3:30 p.m. – 9:15 p.m. and on Friday from 3:30 p.m.– 5:15 p.m. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
· The dedication ceremony for the Great Streets Initiative on Natural Bridge Road will take place on Saturday, September 24. The staff at Natural Bridge will take part in the celebration. The road will be closed for part of the day for a run/walk. The Branch will be open for the entire day. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 3.3)
 Library Foundation
· The Gala was held at HQ on September 17. Congrats to Barbara Turkington, Jim Bogart, and all of the Library staff that worked together to put on this great event. The Sidney Johnson Learning Award was presented to teen volunteer Elvis Walters at the Gala. Elvis has been an active member of the Teen Advisory Group at Grand Glaize Branch since 2011. More information and pictures from the Gala will be included in next month’s report.
· The Library was notified that we are receiving two grants. The Library applied for a Technology Mini Grant from the State Library for teen programming and will be receiving $11,865. In addition, UPS is supporting the Born to Read program with a $5,000 grant. Employee volunteers from UPS have been assisting with the Born to Read bag preparation.
· The Foundation Board approved the purchase of BoardDocs. Training will take place in the next several months. The Foundation will begin using the program for their Board Meetings.
· In the next several months, the Foundation will be reviewing their 2017 Budget. The Foundation Board plans to increase the amount budgeted for Alison Grants. The Foundation’s Program Committee awards these grants to the Library after reviewing grant proposals submitted by Branch and Department Managers for programming.
Author Events
· Reed Farrel Coleman, “Robert B. Parker’s Debt to Pay”, Tuesday, September 20, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Amor Towles, “A Gentleman in Moscow”, Thursday, September 22, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Jonathan Safran Foer, “Here I Am”, Friday, September 23, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Main Reading Room.
· Gayle Forman, “Leave Me”, Monday, September 26, 6:30 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
 · Garth Risk Hallberg, “City on Fire”, Tuesday, September 27, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Candice Millard, “Hero of the Empire: The Boer War, a Daring Escape, and the Making of Winston Churchill”, Thursday, September 29, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Joseph Lelyveld, “His Final Battle: The Last Months of Franklin Roosevelt”, Monday, October 3, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Tracy Kidder, “A Truck Full of Money: One Man’s Quest to Recover from Great Success”,Wednesday, October 5, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Ridley Pearson, “Lock and Key: The Initiation”, Thursday, October 6, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Charlaine Harris, “All the Little Liars”, Friday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Main Reading Room.
· Patrick McDonnell, “Tek: The Modern Cave Boy”, Sunday, October 9, 4:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· A Celebration of the Poisoned Pen: Featuring Michael Kahn, Jeffrey Siger, and Reavis Wortham, Monday, October 10, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Paulette Jiles, “News of the World”, Friday, October 14, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
· Stuart Gibbs, “Spy Ski School”, Monday, October 17, 7:00 p.m., Library Headquarters – Auditorium.
Dr. Beckwith commended the Gala Committee for their successful event.  Mrs. Cunnane commented that she loved the new bookmarks designed by the youth through the Youth Services department.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CERTIFICATES OF PARTICIPATION
Michelle Bock from Gilmore and Bell reported that the Library Administration has been working with the Library’s attorneys and financial advisor to finalize the documents for the Library’s $79 million Certificates of Participation (COPs) issuance. Ms. Boch reported that the Library received excellent ratings from both Standard and Poor’s (AA) and Moody’s (Aa2).
On September 19, 2016 at 10:00 a.m., the Library District initiated a competitive sale. The bidder who presented the lowest cost was awarded the bonds. The closing of the sale will take place on September 29, 2016 and the $79 million will be wired to the Library District. The funds will be deposited with the Library District’s trustee bank, BOK Financial (BOKF). The funds are to be used for the completion of the Phase 2 construction plan.
There are many legal documents required to authorize the sale of the COPs. These include a resolution for the Board that authorizes the Library District to enter into a lease purchase transaction.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the resolution authorizing the Library District to enter into a lease purchase transaction authorizing the sale of the Certificates of Participation which will generate $79 million to be used for the Phase 2 construction plan (Cunnane/Tai).
2016 TAX RATES
Kris Mooney reported that Library Administration has reviewed the 2016 post Board of Equalization (BOE) property value assessments. Property values have increased over prior year in total by .8%.
The Board is reminded that the 2016 tax revenue along with the surtax on commercial property will provide approximately 97% of the cash income needed to operate in 2017. According to State Statute, the Board must set the 2016 tax rates by October 1, 2016.
The proposed tax rates in the chart below are set at the ceiling and would provide approximately $48,800,000 in tax revenue for 2017:
			Proposed Tax Rates for 2016
			Presented at Tax Hearing
			2015 Tax Rates
			Residential
			$                            0.247
			$                            0.246
			$                            0.246
			Agricultural
			$                            0.245
			$                            0.226
			$                            0.239
			Commercial
			$                            0.258
			$                            0.260
			$                            0.259
			Personal Property
			$                            0.225
			$                            0.225
			$                            0.225
The Library Board approved the Resolution which states the above proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property are assessed as the 2016 tax rates. If, after validation by the Missouri State Auditor, the tax rate ceiling allowed for any or all subclasses is less than or greater than the approved rate(s) the Director is hereby authorized to set the final rate (s) for the Library as validated by the State of Missouri Auditor. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our customers and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 and September, 2016 (Cunnane/Kenyon)
2016 BUDGET REVISION
Kris Mooney presented the 2016 budget revision.
Mr. Mooney stated that the committee has reviewed the 2016 Budget. Revenue will increase by approximately $1.4 million and expenditures will decrease by approximately $516,000. Account changes are explained within the Budget Revision narrative and summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures that were shared with the Board.
The Library Board approved the Budget Committee’s recommendation of the 2016 revised budget (Cunnane/Tai).
2017 STRUCTURE ADJUSTMENTS AND MERIT RAISES
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for approval of a salary adjustment and merit raises for Library employees. Both the structure adjustment and merit raises will be included in the 2017 Library Budget. Ms. Sorth reported that the Library has been working with Lockton Companies, the Library’s Human Resources Consultant, on this recommendation.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the salary adjustment based on the analysis conducted by Lockton. These adjustments will cost $589,854 for a 0 – 4.5% merit raise range with a 3% average. The total cost is higher this year due in part to the 11 branch re-openings that resulted in filling 21 positions that were not filled during closure. Salary adjustments approved last year cost $542,819 (Kenyon/Cunnane).
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter reported that Cliff Cave and Prairie Commons openings are taking place September 21 and 28 respectively. Mr. Hunter announced that the Library will be closing three branches within the next eight weeks.  Bridgeton Trails will close October 22, Florissant Valley will close October 29, and Daniel Boone will close November 4. Designs are currently underway for Mid-County and the building will be rebuilt in the same spot. Programming for Phase 2 will also begin. Recently, the Library came to the conclusion that the Operations Center will be housed in Headquarters and not at a separate site.
Mr. Hunter shared that construction bids will be recommended at the October Library Board meeting. The market in St. Louis has increased in construction which limits the number of companies bidding for work. Since the market is tight, contractors are more expensive.
CARPET CLEANING
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation for Carpet Cleaning services for all branches.
On August 29, 2016 Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for quarterly Carpet Cleaning across all branches. Responses were due September 12, 2016. Four responses were received.
The lowest and best bid of $47,968 is somewhat higher than the Library’s current annual budget of $35,600, which only includes high-traffic areas. This IFB is for quarterly cleaning of all carpeted areas in a branch.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the selection of ISS Facility Services to provide carpet cleaning services to the Library District for all 20 branches for the amount of $47,968 per year, and that it authorizes the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Cunnane/Tai).
PEST CONTROL
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation for Pest Control services for all branches.
On August 29, 2016 Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for quarterly preventative Pest Control services across all branches. Four vendors responded and the bids were opened at a public opening on September 9, 2016. Anderson Pest Solutions was selected as the best qualified respondent with the lowest reasonable fee. The lowest and best bid of $9,900 compares favorably with the previous contract amount of $12,180.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation that the Library Board select Anderson Pest Solutions to provide preventative pest control services to the Library District for all 20 branches for the amount of $9,900 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Cunnane/Kenyon).
CUSTODIAL SUPPLIES
Steve Hunter presented Administration’s recommendation for delivery of custodial supplies to all braches.
Mr. Hunter reported that the current model for delivery of custodial supplies to the branches is for all materials to be delivered to Headquarters and then distributed to the remaining 19 branches on our regular, daily delivery routes. The Library is therefore in charge of receiving, storing, selecting, and delivering dozens of items for 20 branches on a continuous basis.
Administration believes that moving the business of delivering custodial supplies to an outside firm will lead to savings for the Library both in direct costs and in potential manpower savings.
On August 29, 2016 Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid for twice-weekly Custodial Supply Delivery to all branches. Five vendors responded and the bids were opened at a public opening on September 9, 2016. Royal Paper was selected as the best respondent with the lowest reasonable fee.
The lowest and best bid of $72,578.90 compares favorably with the Library’s last 12 month expenditure of $81,615 for custodial supplies. Additionally, the Library expects some manpower savings that can be reallocated from warehousing to custodial work.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to select Royal Paper to provide delivery of custodial supplies to the Library District for all 20 branches for the amount of $72,578.90 per year, and that it authorizes the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Cunnane/Tai).
FLEET VEHICLES
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation for the purchase of two new Library fleet vehicles. The Library currently owns a 2004 Chevrolet cargo van and a 2005 Chevrolet cargo van, which are used by the delivery drivers to deliver Library materials to the branches. Each vehicle has logged over 170,000 miles.
An Invitation for Bid for two new cargo vans was issued on August 10, 2016. Two vendors responded and the bids were opened at a public opening on August 23, 2016. Lou Fusz Commerical Network was selected as the best qualified respondent with the lowest reasonable fee.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to accept the lowest and best bid from Lou Fusz Commercial Network for a total amount of $41,458. These vehicle purchases were included in the 2016 Library budget at $35,000 per vehicle (Kenyon/Tai).
LAND DONATION
Steve Hunter reported that the St. Louis County Department of Transportation is currently planning a major improvement project on Musick Road at Gravois Road, by the Grant’s View branch. This work is expected to start in 2017. As part of the re-design of Musick Road, one residential parcel on the corner of Musick and Gravois has been vacated.  A map was shared with the Board.  This parcel has a current appraisal (for land only) of $32,200.
 St. Louis County is offering to give this land to the Library District. There is no cost to the district for this transaction. The County has agreed to perform improvements on the land including seeding, fencing, and sourcing water.  Potential uses of this land include outdoor programming, additional garden space, and/or staff use. The conditions of the Board Policy on Real Property – Policy IV have been met.
The Library Board approved the Library Administration’s recommendation to accept the parcel of land from St. Louis County in a no-cost transaction (Tai/Cunnane).
ADJOURNMENT
A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Mrs. Cunnane and seconded by Mrs. Kenyon.  All members approved with voice consent.
The meeting adjourned at 4:29 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
__________________________________                            _________________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date