{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AHPPZU621ADA",
  "date": "2017-11-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, November 20, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Edith Cunnane, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS;  Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Deanna Davis, Rebecca Clarke, Julie Cruise, Paul Bayless, Crystal Harris, Marie Conlin, Kathy Wiese, Terra Sleep, Michael Cohen, Emily Althoff, Cindy Schultz, Laura Kasak, Conrad Rader, Nicole Higginbotham, Chasidy Allen, Keir Haug, Patricia Peiffer, Erin Magner, Amy Gibbons, Jennifer McBride, Gib Van Cleve, Matt Lakin, Sarah Brown, Andrea Johnson, Chris Goodman, Mary Arnhart, Lauren Striebel, Anne Bradley, Tiffany Davis, Courtney Wood, Lindsey Piech, Gina Sheridan, Allison Wisniewski, Carla Maxwell, Kelli Reeves, Maureen Willmann, Sri Upadhya, Meg Coyle, Anna Schurk, Amy Hanaway, Scott Holl, Anna Gonzalez, Donna Spaulding and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the October 2017 Board minutes (Mulligan/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
Mrs. Edith Cunnane joined the meeting.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in October, the District received $23,500 from the State of Missouri’s distribution of the Athletes and Entertainers Tax. This was the first of two payments expected for the State of Missouri’s 2018 fiscal year. The next payment is expected in March 2018.
Additionally, the District received $163,453 from the State of Missouri’s distribution of State Aid to libraries. This was the first of two payments expected for the State of Missouri’s 2018 fiscal year. The next payment is expected in March 2018.
The District also received $16,266 in total grants from the State of Missouri, including $10,000 for the Summer Reading Club, $3,294 for a Technology Mini-Grant to purchase iPads for Youth Services, and $2,972 for a Show Me Steps Grant for staff training on early literacy.
In October, the District paid Graybar $13,182 for two-way radios for the staff at Grant’s View, Daniel Boone, and Florissant Valley. In June 2017, Lewis and Clark was the first branch to receive two-way radios as a pilot program. The two-way radios will increase efficiency and improve communication between staff members. These expenses were part of the 2017 revised budget.
The Library District made the 2nd annual interest payment on the Certificates of Participation issued in April of 2013 and September of 2016. The payment amount totaled $2,028,628.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for October 2017 was $877,419. The expenses included payments for:
		Design costs for Phase 2 buildings - $487,418
		Furniture & Fixtures for Daniel Boone and Florissant Valley - $298,919
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $33,990
The Library Board approved the Treasurer’s Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Cunnane).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the dashboard report contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, PC usage, and monthly trends. The report was shared with the Board. Circulation in October exceeded totals from both October 2015 and October 2016 by 2% in both years. Many branches saw large increases in circulation, visits and computer usage. In addition, Lewis & Clark is featured with information tracking its statistics from opening day to now. The report also included information about the most popular items in the collection.
	The St. Louis Regional Chamber will announce its Education Commitment on December 7. The Commitment is a shared community agenda to see St. Louis become a Top 10 region for educational attainment. The Library has been asked to be a part of the initiative and endorse the goal as a regional priority. In addition, the Library will be collaborating and supporting many of the strategies within the commitment through existing programs and services. The commitment states that “the future prosperity of St. Louis—indeed the prosperity of individuals living and working in the St. Louis region—depends on a fundamental commitment to education as a top community priority. To ensure that St. Louis remains globally competitive, the region requires a strong and well-educated workforce as its core.” Ms. Sorth shared that the Library is pleased to be a part of these efforts and she plans to attend the event announcing the Education Commitment on December 7. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3)
	Jamestown Bluffs and Lewis & Clark have expanded their service area boundaries to include Spanish Lake, which was a previously unassigned area of the County. Both branches and Bookmobile and Mobile Services have conducted outreach in this area, but now the boundaries are more formally designated to help clarify branch outreach responsibilities in the area. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Career Online High School Program launched on October 2. The response continues to amaze the administration. A total of 1,027 people have completed the online self-assessment. Of those, 608 are St. Louis County Library patrons. The next step for the applicants is completing the online prerequisite course and 93 individuals have done so. We have 88 interviews scheduled, with 28 conducted thus far. The first group of students should start the program at the beginning of 2018. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3 and Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library plans to pilot a Wi-Fi hotspot lending program. Many libraries around the country have started lending hotspots to their patrons. The Library is coordinating efforts with St. Louis Public Library and plan to have a joint launch of this regional initiative in December. We will initially have 30 devices available for patron checkout with plans to add 60 more in 2018. St. Louis Public Library will do the same. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	The “My Card My Way” filming took place at the Prairie Commons Branch on November 14. This is a joint media campaign with St. Louis Public Library. Each library selected three patron stories to profile. SLCL selected a small business owner, a family from India whose daughter has completed the 1000 Books Before Kindergarten program, and a mother and stepson who used Mango to learn English. There will also be an accompanying social media campaign to promote these and other patron stories. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth reported that approximately 160 people gathered at Headquarters on November 13 to listen to the stories of POWs as told through war diaries and artifacts. United States Holocaust Memorial Museum curator, Kyra Schuster, discussed the story of Anthony Acevedo, an American army medic who was captured by German forces during the Battle of the Bulge in WWII. Acevedo donated his diary and other items to the Museum in 2010. The diary detailed the experience of 300 American POWs who were selected by the Nazis for slave labor in a sub camp of Buchenwald concentration camp. Among those in attendance were an English teacher and her students from the Parkway School District, several veterans and family members of veterans. This is the second program in partnership with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the list of school districts participating in Library ConnectED is growing and there are several new schools that are currently reviewing the Memorandum of Understanding. The districts include Clayton, Parkway, Hancock Place, Riverview Gardens, Jennings, Ritenour, Bayless, Normandy, Affton, Ferguson-Florissant, Ladue, and Lindbergh. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Reference Department hosted a special Book a Librarian Session for an ESL (English as a Second Language) Class. Forty students came to HQ for a tour of the building as well as a tour of the Library’s websites and databases. They were very interested in the World Access News and Magazine databases as well as the Library’s Book Discussion Kits. They plan to check out several kits to use as a group in their class. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.3)
	This summer, the Library requested creative designs from kids and teens for the Design a Bookmark Contest. We received 379 submissions from kids and 70 submissions from teens. The winning bookmarks were professionally printed and distributed to all of the branches. The bookmarks have garnered a large number of positive comments from patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.3)
	The Urban Libraries Council is working on a project that researches libraries as entrepreneurial hubs. As I mentioned in a previous meeting, they selected SLCL as one of the libraries to talk with because of our successful small business series conducted by the Reference Department. Ms. Sorth had an initial conversation with ULC and now has been asked to attend a meeting in Washington D.C. on December 11 and 12 to explore a library’s role in supporting and promoting entrepreneurship. This meeting is part of ULC’s new partnership with the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation which is designed to:
		Leverage and develop the assets of the public library to create hubs for entrepreneurs
		Advance equity and the economic health of urban communities by increasing support for all entrepreneurs and particularly for women, people of color, veterans and immigrants.
Ms. Sorth plans to attend the meeting.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Ms. Sorth shared those articles with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library had a number of great photos that were shown to the Board from several programs and events including: 5th Annual Diwali Mela at Thornhill, Halloween Story Time at Jamestown Bluffs, author and actress Gabrielle Union at HQ, Listen Up STL Live at Grant’s View, Home School Explorations at Daniel Bone, Puppet Slam at Thornhill, Family Fort Night at HQ and author Lee Child at HQ. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth reported that Katherine VanArsdale, a recently hired Assistant Branch Manager, has been invited to be an American Library Association Emerging Leader.   Emerging Leaders is a leadership development program which enables newer library workers from across the country to participate in problem-solving work groups, network with peers, gain an inside look into ALA structure, and have an opportunity to serve the profession in a leadership capacity.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Youth Services Specialist, Julie Phoenix, was awarded a Penguin Young Readers Group Award for the American Library Association Conference.  Julie is one of four individuals selected nationwide.  The award provides a $600 stipend for Julie to attend her first ALA Annual Conference. Selection is based on, among other things, new programs or innovations started by the applicants at the library in which he/she works. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Amy Hanaway, Alaina Culbertson and former employee Susie Bushnell have been selected to present at the American Library Associations’ annual conference.  Their presentation is entitled, “Kumbaya: Strategies for Guiding your Staff Through Change.” (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Thanks to the persistence of Amy Gibbons, our IT Coordinator, and Gib Van Cleve, ITS overcame one challenge that we have faced with our renovated buildings. The integration of our phone system with the new overhead paging systems installed at the renovated branches has been a mystery since we re-opened our first branch. Outside sources were polled for solutions but none were viable. ITS then discovered an obscure feature in our existing phone system. With the use of a soldering iron and some fancy programming in the phone switch, overhead paging is finally being delivered to our patiently waiting branches.
	Ms. Sorth explained that Administration reviewed Voice of Patron results from the first six months of the new website. Over 1,600 people were surveyed about the new site. The bulk of visitors to the site were interested in accessing their account information, browsing the catalog, or downloading eMedia. The average SLCL user is over the age of 55. The results showed that most users are able to complete their task and are satisfied with the results. Interpersonal Frequency, the company who designed the new website, made recommendations on how to further increase satisfaction rates. Staff will be reviewing those suggestions. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	The Library will be upgrading the Telephone Notification System (TNS).  This is one of the ways in which we notify patrons about various issues related to their records. The TNS makes 600-700 calls a day to patrons which accounts for 17% of patron hold notices.
	Library Administration recently met with representatives from St. Louis County Police to discuss the contract for off-duty officers. With the passage of Proposition P in St. Louis County, we anticipate some changes to the contract. Ms. Sorth will update the Library Board as discussions continue.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	A 3.5 acre parcel of land has been purchased at 500 Workman Road, Eureka, Missouri, 63025.  The land will be home to a new Eureka Hills Branch replacing the existing Eureka Hills Branch which currently exists in a leased space. The current location is 6500 square feet, the second smallest in the Library District.  This new property was not purchased with bond proceeds. Plans for the design and construction of the new branch will take place in future years after a majority of the Your Library Renewed projects are complete. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	The Daniel Boone Branch re-opened to the public on October 25. Library employees were greeted by patrons that were very happy to be back. Over 3,000 people visited the branch on its opening day. In its first week, Daniel Boone had the highest circulation in the System and staff created 282 new patron cards which accounted for 27% of the system total for that week. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	The Mid-County Branch closed for construction this past Saturday, November 18 at 5:00 p.m. It is anticipated that the new branch will open in about 12 months. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth mentioned that over 600 books were distributed at the Give Kids a Smile free dental clinic on October 27 and 28. The Youth Services staff selected an amazing assortment of books. Ms. Sorth shared that it is a great partnership with Delta Dental, and the children and the participating dentists really appreciate the Foundation's gift of books. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The total revenue for the 2017 Gala was $266,379, an increase of 18% from last year. Ms. Sorth congratulated the co-chairs of the Gala, the Foundation Board, Barbara Turkington, Jim Bogart, Courtney Wood, Nicole Higginbotham and all of the Library employees that volunteered to help with the event.
	The Foundation held a donor appreciation breakfast on November 14th.  Sixty-one people attended the breakfast.  The Foundation recognized the ten corporate sponsors of Born to Read and author Doug Stanton discussed his new book on the Vietnam War.
Author Events
	Khizr Khan, “An American Family”, Wednesday, November 29, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
            HQ will close at 5:00 p.m. for this event.
	 Elizabeth Berg, "The Story of Arthur Truluv", Nov. 30, 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Robert Merry, "President McKinley", Dec. 5, 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., Headquarters
	James Rollins, "The Demon Crown",  Dec. 13, 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Peter Hayes, "Why?: Explaining the Holocaust", Dec. 14, 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., Headquarters
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Kristen Sorth reported that demolition at Grand Glaize Branch is now underway. Grand Glaize is getting an addition, and the branch will receive a dynamic children's space. The Thornhill Branch is scheduled to close in 2018. The Board will vote on Thornhill’s contract recommendations in December.
SHARED SERVICES AGREEMENT
Kristen Sorth presented a recommendation for approval of the annual Shared Services Agreement between the Library and the Library Foundation
Ms. Sorth explained that the Shared Services Agreement defines the level of support provided by the Library to the Foundation and is a requirement of the Affiliation Agreement between the Library and the Foundation. The Foundation Board Executive Committee has reviewed this document. In addition, the Foundation Board agrees to reimburse the Library for up to 100% of the salaries for the Manager, Development and the Friends Coordinator who utilize 100% of their time in performing services for the Foundation.
The agreement that was shared with the Board reflects the level of support and will be voted on by the Foundation Board at their December Board meeting.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation of the annual Shared Services Agreement. This agreement supersedes and thereby terminates the Shared Services Agreement dated January 1, 2017. The term of this new agreement will begin on January 1, 2018 and terminate on December 31, 2018 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
RECIPROCAL LENDING
Kristen Sorth presented a recommendation for approval of the Reciprocal Lending Agreements with the Municipal Library Consortium, St. Charles City-County Library, and St. Louis Public Library.
Ms. Sorth reported that at the September 25, 2017 Library Board Meeting, Library Administration recommended a change to the Reciprocal Borrowing Agreements with St. Louis Public Library, St. Charles City-County Library and the nine Municipal Library Consortium member libraries.  The elimination of the transactional fees associated with the Reciprocal Borrowing agreements were approved by the Library Board. In addition, the Library Board authorized the Library Director to negotiate and execute those changes with each institution.
Since that meeting, Ms. Sorth met with the Directors of the nine member libraries of the Municipal Library Consortium as well as the Directors of St. Charles City-County Library and St. Louis Public Library. All have enthusiastically agreed to the changes that were approved at the September 25, 2017 St. Louis County Library Board Meeting.
Three separate agreements were shared with the Board.  These include one for the Municipal Library Consortium, one for St. Charles City-County Library and one for St. Louis Public Library. The agreements were drafted by Lashly Baer. Because the transactions are reviewed retroactively, the parties all agree to the terms of the agreement effective January 1, 2017.
The Library Board approved the separate approval of the Reciprocal Lending Agreements with the Municipal Library Consortium, St. Charles City-County Library, and St. Louis Public Library (Tai/Cunnane).
2018 BUDGET
Kris Mooney gave an informational presentation on the 2018 Library Budget.
Mr. Mooney began by stating that the Budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of: Kristen Sorth – Director; Eric Button – Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington – Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS; Kris Mooney –Assistant Director, Administration; Steve Hunter – Assistant Director, Construction & Facilities. Mr. Mooney and Ms. Sorth discussed the revenue and expenditures included in the 2018 Budget.
The 2018 Budget Document was shared with the Board. The Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2018 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
The Library Board of Trustees set the 2017 tax rates at: $ 0.234 for Residential assessments,
$0.215 for Agricultural assessments, $ 0.253 for Commercial assessments, and $ 0.225 for Personal Property assessments. These rates will provide 96% of the cash income to operate in
2018. The Executive Summary on page 2 and the Revenue and Expenses on page 4 - 7 are a synopsis of the proposed 2018 Cash Budget. The 2018 budget has a budgeted surplus of $2.9 million.
The 2018 Budget was presented as an informational item for this month in order to give the Library Board of Trustees time to review the document and ask questions. The Library Board of Trustees will vote on the 2018 Library Budget at the December Meeting. That vote will allow the Library to operate in 2018.
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Edith Cunnane to adjourn the meeting. The meeting adjourned at 4:43 p.m. All approved with voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,                                                          Date
____________________________                                        _____________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary