{
  "name": "Copy of Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AHPNX461FB8B",
  "date": "2017-12-18T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2017
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, December 18, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary and Edith Cunnane had excused absences.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jeremiah King, RGB; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; Tim Greve, 4M; Brian Awalt, 4M; Tom Spann, Brinkmann Constructors; Scott Kolath, LCM  and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Rachel Nowell, Carla Maxwell, Nicole Higginbotham, Stacey Lewis, Conrad Rader, Jennifer McBride, Erin Magner, Nicole Clawson, Julie Cruise, Jake Eubanks, Courtney Wood, Jennifer Alexander, Cheri Remington, Mary Arnhart, Sarah Brown, Catherine Hill, Deanna Davis, Natalia Catlett, Rebecca Clarke, Kathy Wiese, Katie Keeven, Laura Kasak, Lindsey Piech, Annie Fuller, Kat Van Arsdale, Emily Althoff, Anne Bradley, Michael Cohen, Kelli Reeves, Maureen Willmann, Chasidy Allen, Lori Boschert, Lisa Haddox, Scott Holl, Ross Brand, Stephanie Nordmann, Kathy Muller, Edith Isele, Connie Dee, Mary Meyer, Keir Haug, Marie Conlin, Paul Bayless, Alaina Culbertson, Amy Hanaway, Lauren Striebel, Anna Maria Gonzalez and Sandy Williams.
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the November 20, 2017 Minutes (Mulligan/Kenyon).
 TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in November, the Library District received grant payments from the State of Missouri in the amount of $8,766. These payments included $8,016 for a Racing to Read grant to offset the cost of creating the Rhythm & Tunes videos. This is the second of three payments received for the grant. The videos were created by Library staff to help with early literacy development. The remaining $750 was for a Summer Reading Program workshop that was held at the Grant’s View Branch in October 2017.
The Library District paid Demco $6,182 for 17 new display carts to accommodate the influx of DVDs available at the branches. Recently, the District increased the number of current television series available on DVD in order to meet patron needs.
Additionally, the Library District closed on the new Eureka Hills land for the purchase price of $590,000.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for November 2017 was $840,454. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Phase 2a buildings -$310,736
		Design costs for Headquarters - $159,268
		Design costs for Phase 2 buildings - $128,872
		Construction Management services for Phase 2 buildings - $83,017
		Design costs for Mid County - $39,031
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $34,415
		Construction costs for Phase 1Bb buildings - $21,057
The Library Board approved of the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Mulligan).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth stated that the Dashboard contains a variety of statistical information for the Library, including information about circulation, visits, PC usage and monthly trends. The report was shared with the Board. Circulation in November increased almost 4% over this same time last year. In addition, visits increased by 2%, PC usage increased by 6%, and program attendance increased by 23%. November was the first full month Daniel Boone was open. Circulation at Daniel Boone this November was 25% higher than November 2015. The report also includes information about the most popular items in the collection.
	Listen Up STL, the Library’s local music project, has expanded. Over 40 new albums have been added to the collection, which features albums by local musicians representing a variety of genres. Library cardholders can stream the Listen Up STL collection through our website or by downloading the free app.  The Listen Up STL collection features over 130 albums by local musicians representing a variety of genres including rock, jazz, blues, gospel and country. Each year, we solicit music for inclusion in the Listen Up STL collection. The next submission period is scheduled for spring 2018. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the International Institute will present a We Are St. Louis program on January 31 entitled Pathways to the City. The program will address immigration in our region. On March 22 at 7:00 p.m. at HQ, the Library will host NEW WORLD, a one act play that tells the stories of three women refugees from Afghanistan, Bosnia and the Republic of Congo. Based on interviews with women living in St. Louis, the play addresses why they left their countries to come to the United States.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.2 and Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Career Online High School Program launched on October 2. The response continues to amaze us. A total of 1190 people have completed the online self-assessment. Of those, 695 are St. Louis County Library patrons. The next step for the applicants is completing the online prerequisite course and 108 individuals have done so. Ricqui Brooks, Adult Literacy Coordinator, along with various Library managers have conducted 83 interviews and awarded scholarships to 29 individuals with plans to award additional scholarships in the next week. The first group of students should start the program at the beginning of 2018. Ms. Sorth said responses to the scholarship awards have been wonderful and shared the following letter as an example:
Dear COHS team,
I feel so fortunate for being chosen to receive this scholarship. I would like to thank you and everyone else who made this possible. It definitely means so much to me. The past few years I have planned to continue my education. However, my family’s financial conditions were not allowing me to pay for my education. With this scholarship, your generosity and support will help me focus on my academics without having to worry about the tuition fee. Thank you once again for your generosity. I promise I will work hard to prove myself worthy of this opportunity you have given me.
 (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3 and Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Wi-Fi hotspot lending pilot launched on Friday with much interest by the media and the public. The Library is coordinating efforts with St. Louis Public Library and will initially have 30 devices available for patron checkout with plans to add 60 more in 2018.  St. Louis Public Library will do the same. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	The Senior Scholars Program (SSP) is offered through the College of Arts & Sciences at UMSL, in partnership with the St. Louis County Older Resident Programs (CORP). The pilot starts this spring semester and will be introduced as a full program in the fall semester. The SSP is recognized as a contributor to the St. Louis County's Age Friendly Community Initiative. Thirty adults, aged 65+ years and with a HS diploma, will apply to audit a 16-week college level course starting January 16, 2018. In addition to attending their chosen course, these “Senior Scholars” will take part in a full day orientation retreat and special gatherings throughout the term. Scholars study alongside degree-seeking students and foster an inter-generational learning environment. The Library has been involved in the marketing of this new program and will participate in the orientation. Additionally, we will host the Senior Scholars monthly meetings. These meetings are a 2-hour social and program-related gathering and allow the Senior Scholars to see various branches and learn about library resources such as databases and programming. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4)
	Ms. Sorth shared that 325 aspiring entrepreneurs, current business owners, and nonprofit representatives attended business-related workshops, presentations, and a free legal assistance clinic at the Library’s Small Business and Nonprofit Expo on Friday, December 8. Participants learned about various topics of interest including Facebook marketing, writing a business plan, finding donors or customers and getting grants. Legal Services of Eastern Missouri addressed specific questions regarding business and nonprofit issues. Reference librarians offered presentations on resources available at the library. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.2)
	The Library now has access to a new automotive repair database: Chilton Library. The database provides access to online automobile repair manuals and diagrams, maintenance information, labor estimates and bulletin/recall details for thousands of domestic and imported cars and trucks from 1940 to the current model. A great feature of this database is that patrons can access it remotely. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	As part of the Regional Chamber’s Commitment to Education, they want to offer informational sessions that provide information and resources for adults interested in pursuing their college degree.  These sessions will take place at five branches from February to April at Weber Road, Grant’s View, Florissant Valley, Jamestown Bluffs and Cliff Cave. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4)
	Playaway Launchpads are tablets that are pre-loaded with content for children. The Library purchased five different titles to be circulated to patrons for in-library use. Four of the launchpad titles are geared toward ages 305. An example is A Day at the Zoo! This particular launchpad has games and activities centering on ways for children to explore animals, animal sounds, and habitats. Another title selected for purchase is geared toward children ages 5-7 and is titled Big Minds! This launchpad is STEAM based and will help children strengthen math skills, develop fine motor skills, and strengthen problem-solving skills. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1 and 3.1)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Ms. Sorth shared those articles with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth shared a great number of  photos with the Board from several programs and events including:  After School Art Fest at Natural Bridge, STArt; Goopy Science at Prairie Commons, Khizr Khan at HQ, A Night at the Three Broomsticks at Grant’s View, Family Science Night at Weber Road, and Cooks Club; Dr. Seuss Christmas at Oak Bend. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that St. Louis County Library has been ranked as a four-star library in the Library Journal Index of Public Library Service for the fourth consecutive year. SLCL is the only library in the St. Louis area to be included in the index this year, and one of only six in the state of Missouri. The rank of four stars indicates a high per capita use in five major areas of library service: library visits, circulation, program attendance, public Internet computer use, and eCirculation. The ranking is based on statistics from 2015. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1)
	The Judevine Center for Autism will be conducting training sessions for Library employees at each of the regional branches in 2018. The training is free of charge.
	Ms. Sorth reported that Stacey Lewis, Manager of Adult Programming, was a panelist in a webinar presented by Library Journal on December 12 entitled Amplifying Community Engagement: How Libraries Can Use Smart Technology to Empower Local Authors and Expand Library Reach.
	The Black History Celebration Committee is thrilled to report that Judge Jimmie Edwards will be the keynote speaker for the 2018 Black History Celebration at HQ.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth explained that the Library is working with the City of Clayton on several pre-construction questions and issues.
	Security camera and off-duty police guidelines have been created to assist managers with various issues that may arise at their branch. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
	The Thornhill Branch will close for construction on Saturday, January 6 at 5:00 p.m. It is anticipated that the brand new branch will open in about 12 months. Thornhill employees will be reassigned to various branches during the closure. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
Library Foundation
	The Gift of Reading program with the Normandy Middle School took place on November 20 when the Youth Services Specialist from Natural Bridge visited the Normandy Middle School Center. Each middle school student chose a book from a selected group of titles after listening to a book talk for each.
	The Joint Library-Foundation Review Committee met on December 11. Edith Cunnane represented the Library, and Ted Sanditz represented the Foundation.  Jim Bogart and Barbara Turkington also attended. The committee discussed this year’s accomplishments and the 2018 Foundation Budget.  Additionally, the committee discussed the successful launch of the Career Online High School Diploma Program.
Author Events
	Robert Crais, “The Wanted”, 7:00 p.m., Monday, January 08, 2018, Headquarters.  Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Brad Taylor, “Operator Down”, 7:00 p.m., Thursday, January 11, 2018, Headquarters. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Michael Dante DiMartino, “Warrior Genius”, 4:00 p.m., Sunday, January 14, 2018, Headquarters. Doors open at 3:00 p.m.
	Jessica Shattuck, “The Women in the Castle,” 7:00 p.m., Tuesday, January 16, 2018, Headquarters.  Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Kelly Corrigan, “Tell Me More,” 7:00 p.m., Monday, January 22, 2018, Headquarters.  Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Gregg Hurwitz, “Hell Bent”, 7:00 p.m., Monday, February 05, 2018
Headquarters.  Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
Ms. Sorth wished everyone Happy Holidays! She also thanked everyone for their support, love of the Library, and for a great year. Ms. Sorth said she is looking forward to 2018.
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Kristen Sorth reported that Grand Glaize is under construction and Mid-County is in the abatement and testing period. Ms. Sorth shared pictures of Grand Glaize’s addition and shared that Mid-County will be demolished in January. The City of Clayton is finalizing paperwork concerning the branch. Thornhill will close on January 6, 2018.
2015 - 2018 STRATEGIC PLAN UPDATE
Library Planner Marie Conlin presented an update on the 2015-2018 Strategic Plan approved by the Board on October 20, 2014. Ms. Conlin explained that the plan is arranged into three main areas of focus: increasing literacy, strengthening the sense of community, and creating gathering spaces.
During 2017, Ms. Conlin reported that there were 73 ongoing activities and 46 new activities identified in support of the plan.  In 2018, there will be 52 ongoing activities that will be continued. Additionally, Ms. Conlin shared that plans for developing a new Strategic Plan will take place in 2018.
2018 BUDGET
Kris Mooney presented the 2018 Budget. He reported that the 2018 Budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of the following individuals:
	Kristen Sorth – Director
	Eric Button – Deputy Director
	Barbara Turkington - Assistant Director, Advancement
	Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS
	Kris Mooney –Assistant Director, Administration
	Steve Hunter – Assistant Director, Construction & Facilities
Mr. Mooney explained that the Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2018 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
The Library Board of Trustees set the 2017 tax rates at $0.234 for Residential assessments, $0.215 for Agricultural assessments, $0.253 for Commercial assessments and $ 0.225 for
Personal Property assessments. These rates will provide 96% of the cash income to operate in
2018. The Executive Summary on page 2 and the Revenue and Expenses on page 4 - 8 are a synopsis of the proposed 2018 Cash Budget. The 2018 budget has a budgeted surplus of $2.9 million.
The 2018 Budget was presented at the November Library Board meeting as an informational item to give the Library Board time to review the Budget document, ask questions and for Administration to respond accordingly. The Library Board approved the 2018 Library Budget which will allow the Library to operate in 2018 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
DANIEL AND HENRY 3-YEAR CONTRACT
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Property and Casualty Insurance Brokerage services with The Daniel and Henry Co. Brokerage service.
Mr. Mooney reported that St. Louis County Library District issued an RFQ for Insurance Brokerage services for Property and Casualty Insurance in September of 2015. The Daniel and Henry Company (D&H) was selected and approved by the Library Board at the October 2015 meeting. The brokerage fee approved by the Library Board was $20,000.
The Library District is proposing to enter into a 3-year contract with D&H. The preparation of the contract was led by Lashly & Baer. There is no statutory requirement to bid professional services contracts unless Administration deems it necessary. This contract includes a 10% annual increase in the brokerage fee which would be paid out as follows:
2017 - $22,000
2018 - $24,200
2019 - $26,260
Since 2015, D&H has generated $60,000 in cost savings in the Library District’s property and casualty and workers compensation insurance. In addition, D&H has added two important lines of coverage, Cyber Liability and Sexual Molestation.
The Library Board approved of a 3-year contract for Property and Casualty Insurance Brokerage services with The Daniel and Henry Co. Brokerage service, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Kenyon/Mulligan).
CUSTODIAL SERVICES
Kristen Sorth presented Administration’s recommendation for Custodial Services.
Ms. Sorth explained that on November 13, 2017, Library Administration issued an IFB for Custodial Services at fourteen locations. This is for night cleaning at select branches to augment the work of our regular staff custodians. The bid was posted on the SLCL website as well as direct mailed to 10 local W/MBE firms that identified as providing custodial services. Responses were due December 7, 2017. Five firms replied.
The responses were reviewed by a selection team consisting of Steve Hunter, Kelli Reeves, and Brett Boling. 4M is our incumbent custodial services provider but did not complete the bid form properly and are considered nonresponsive. The references for the apparent low bidder, C.E. Berry, were inconsistent. One reference withheld a recommendation. The next lowest bidder, Buildingstars, presented references from local & regional libraries.
Conversations with them were consistently positive. The selection team therefore determined that Buildingstars provided the lowest and best bid. Their bid of $180,720 compares favorably with the 2018 budgeted amount of $200,000.
The Library Board approved the selection of Buildingstars to provide Custodial Services to the Library District at fourteen locations for the amount of $180,720 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Mulligan/Kenyon).
LAWN AND LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for Lawn and Landscape Maintenance.
On November 13, 2017, Library Administration issued an IFB for Lawn and Landscape Maintenance at all locations, including the Jai Nagarkatti Monsanto Company Reading Garden adjacent to the Samuel Sachs branch. The scope includes mowing, trimming, and fertilizing all lawns and the regular maintenance of all landscaped areas, including irrigation systems. The bid was posted on the SLCL website and direct mailed to 6 local firms, including the four MBE firms that identified as landscape service providers. Responses were due December 7, 2017. Three firms replied.
The responses were reviewed by a team consisting of Steve Hunter, Kelli Reeves, and Steve Hibbler. The team concluded that the low bidder, Loyette, has submitted a thorough and complete response to the IFB. Their bid of $147,659 compares favorably to the 2018 budgeted value of $225,000.
The Library Board  approved the selection of Loyette to provide Lawn and Landscape Maintenance services to the Library District for all locations for the amount of $147,659 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Kenyon/Mulligan).
TRASH AND RECYCLING PICKUP
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for Trash & Recycling Pickup.
Library Administration issued an IFB for Trash & Recycling Pickup at all locations on November 13, 2017. The bid was posted on the SLCL website and direct mailed to four companies, including the two local W/MBE firms that identified as providing this service. Responses were due December 7, 2017. Two firms replied.
The responses were reviewed by a selection team consisting of Steve Hunter, Kelli Reeves, and Brett Boling. The team unanimously chose our incumbent provider, Waste Management, as having provided the lowest and best bid. The budgeted amount for 2018 is $25,000.
The Library Board approved the selection of Waste Management to provide Trash & Recycling Pickup services to the Library District for all 20 locations for the amount of $19,513.32 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Mulligan/Kenyon).
DIVERSITY GOALS – BRANCH DEMOLITION / CONSTRUCTION AT THORNHILL
Kristen Sorth presented information on progress towards the diversity goals for the Thornhill Branch construction project. Ms. Sorth explained that the Library Board will review the 16 work packages for construction at the Thornhill Branch later in the meeting. The bid process included a review by the Library, Landmark, and Brinkmann Constructors as to whether the responses meet the diversity goals of 15% for minority-owned businesses (MBE) and 5% for women-owned businesses (WBE) as outlined in the Library’s Diversity Statement, which is attached. Good faith efforts went beyond those required in the Library’s policy and included advertisements, notifications, conversations, meetings and outreach that began in early 2017 and continued to the day of the public bid opening on November 17, 2017.
The activities included reaching out to the St. Louis Minority Business Council and the MidStates Minority Supplier Development Council; making bid documents available at MOKAN, Cross Rhodes Reprographics, SLMBC, and online; advertising and conducting an outreach meeting; and ongoing discussions with bidders during the process.
The total percent of construction awarded to minority-owned businesses for this project is 9.5% and the total amount for women-owned businesses is 40.3%.
The Library, Landmark, and Brinkmann will continue to emphasize the Library’s Diversity Statement as it relates to W/MBE business ownership goals. Additionally, the Library Administration will continue to actively encourage minority workforce participation on all Library projects.
CONTRACTS AND CONTINGENCY FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THORNHILL BRANCH
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation to approve the lowest and best bid on 16 work packages for the construction of the Thornhill Branch.
Ms. Sorth reported that final construction documents for the Thornhill Branch were delivered by Mackey Mitchell Architects on October 20, 2017. Brinkmann Constructors organized the work into 16 separate work packages and released them for bid on October 25, 2017.
The bid notice was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the St. Louis American, on the SLCL website, on Brinkmann’s SmartBid website, and in various plan rooms around the area. In addition, 251 W/MBE firms were notified directly of the bid posting. A pre-bid / outreach meeting was held at the Mid-County Branch on November 2, 2017.
Bids were opened in a public meeting on November 17 at Mid-County. There were 52 individual bids received. Multiple qualifying responses were received in each work package except Technology.
The individual work packages and the qualified responses to each are listed below. The total amount being requested is $5,285,829.00, plus a separate recommendation for project contingency. The Board will be asked to approve each individual work package. By approving these, the Board is authorizing the Director to enter into and execute the completed contracts as they are prepared. In accordance with the Library’s bid procedure, Administration is recommending the lowest and best bid for each work package:
Work Package #1 – Demolition / Abatement
The Library board approved the  selection of the lowest and best bid from Spirtas Wrecking at $58,860 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #2 – Cast-in-Place Concrete & Flatwork
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from XL Contracting at $239,355 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #3 – Masonry
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Grant Contracting at $159,770 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #4 – Structural Steel
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Wilson’s Structural Steel at $540,000 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #5 – Roofing & Sheet Metal
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from K Meier Roof Systems at $261,120 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #6 – Glass & Glazing
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Budget Glass at $255,675 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #7 – Framing, Drywall, Acoustic Ceilings
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from D&L Painting & Drywall at $568,645 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #8 – Tile & Flooring
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Flooring Systems, Inc. at $122,340 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #9 – Painting
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dannix Painting at $29,969 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #10 – Fire Suppression
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Bi-State Fire Protection at $70,200 (Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #11 – Plumbing
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Pipe Systems Mechanical at $221,333 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #12 – HVAC
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Pipe Systems Mechanical at $539,883(Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #13 – Electrical
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Briner Electric at $709,800 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #14 – Technology
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from CI Select at $65,229(Kenyon/Mulligan).
Work Package #15 – Sitework
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Castle Contracting at $893,000 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Work Package #16 – General Works
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Waterhout Construction at $550,650 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
Contingency
Ms. Sorth requested the Board’s approval of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $500,000 for permitting, unforeseen conditions, and owner requested changes. The spending of this contingency fund will be approved by Kristen Sorth, Library Director, or Steve Hunter,
Assistant Director, as needed during the execution of the project. The accounting of the
expenditures against the contingency fund will be regularly reported back to the Library Board.
The Library Board approved of a project contingency fund totaling $500,000 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Mulligan made a motion to adjourn. Elena Kenyon seconded. All gave a voice vote for approval. The meeting adjourned at 4:28 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
____________________                                            ______________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                      Date