{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AHPPXQ620B9A",
  "date": "2017-05-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, MAY 15, 2017
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, May 15, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Aaron Eller, Lindsey Piech, Keir Haug, Marlee Keeven, Julie Mangner, Paul Bayless, Julie Cruise, Scott Kolath, Natalia Catlett, Michelle Sawicki, Mary Arnhart, Nicole Higginbotham, Kathy Wiese, Laura Kasak, Megan Coyle, Sarah Brown, Scott Holl, Marsha Ramey, Barb Reale, Edith Isele, Jennifer McBride, Chasidy Allen, Ross Brand, Roz Kohen, Stacey Lewis, Anna Schurk, Carrie Robb, Deanna Davis, Anne Bradley, Carla Maxwell, Kelli Reeves, Stacy Berger, Conrad Rader, Tiffany Davis, Lori Boschert, Mary Meyer, Maureen Willmann, Lauren Striebel, Rebecca Clarke, Stephanie Nordmann, Emily Althoff, Cindy Schultz, Michael Cohen, Alaina Culbertson, Sri Upadhya, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood and Sandy Williams.
Dr. Beckwith opened the meeting and announced that Board Member Michael Mulligan had an excused absence.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the April 24, 2017 minutes (Kenyon/Cunnane).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in April, the Library District received $20,500 from St. Louis County’s distribution of the Athletes and Entertainers Tax. This is the first of two payments for the 2017 fiscal year.
The Library District also received a state aid payment in the amount of $17,585. Due to Governor withholds, the state funding for all of Missouri’s libraries have been under pressure since 2015 and appears to continue in fiscal year 2017. In 2015, the Library District received $429,574 in state funding. In 2016 the District received $142,690, and in 2017 the District is on track to receive $35,170. The Library District budgeted $170,228 in 2017 for Missouri state aid.
The Library District paid Travelers Insurance $33,960 for Directors and Officers Liability insurance and cyber liability insurance for the policy year beginning April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018.
Loyet Landscape Maintenance, Inc. was paid a total of $23,654 for landscaping services for 19 branches from March 2, 2017 through April 13, 2017.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for April 2017 was $301,791. The expenses included payments for:
	Construction management services for Phase 2a buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone) - $162,054
	Construction Costs for Phase 1Bb buildings (Samuel C. Sachs, Oak Bend, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Cliff Cave) - $85,218
	Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $42,020; The Library is only to receive about $35,000 in State Aid.
The Library Board approved the Treasurer’s Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
PRESENTATION
Before the Director’s Report, Dr. Beckwith presented gifts from the Board to Ms. Sorth in honor of the completion of her Master’s Degree in Library Science (MLS) on May 21. Ms. Sorth thanked everyone, especially the Board, Administration, and Manager of Cataloging, Tracey Fletcher. Dr. Beckwith explained that the Board put a stipulation on Ms. Sorth’s position that she had to earn an MLS degree. Dr. Beckwith stated that the Board was proud of her for this accomplishment.
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the dashboard report for May contained a variety of statistical information for the Library. The report was shared with the Board. This month, the report includes information about circulation, visits, programming, new patron registrations, and PC usage. With various branches closed for construction, circulation for April is down 3.6%. Several branches saw significant increases again this month. Since Daniel Boone closed in November 2016, Sachs circulation has increased 52%. The report also includes information about the most popular items in the collection and information on social media and Food for Fines.
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library offered Food for Fines during National Library Week from April 9 – April 15. Patrons could exchange one can of food for $1 in fines up to a maximum of $10. The Library collected 17,779 pounds of food for Operation Food Search with Prairie Commons collecting the most at 1,629 pounds. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Part of the planning process for the future Headquarters location included discussions about the role of the Library in the Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP). The Library has been a selective depository in the FDLP program since 1970. FDLP provides government documents to libraries to make government information available to the general public. FDLP materials were traditionally provided in physical formats such as books, maps, and microfiche. In more recent decades, this has shifted more toward digital documents, and the physical items saw dramatically decreased usage by the public.  Statistics collected in recent years show that more than 75% of government document questions are answered with an online resource rather than an item from the physical collection. The Library’s current collection of government documents includes more than 800 shelves of materials that are rarely used by the public. Given the competing space needs in the new HQ facility, we are recommending a shift in our status with the FDLP.  The Library will be listed as a digital depository only. This change will keep us listed as a FDLP site, but moving forward we will only receive access to documents in digital format. No physical items will be sent. Many discussions have taken place with representatives of the Federal Depository Library. They are supportive of our decision and indicated that this is a common trend for many public libraries. In preparation for the eventual closure of HQ and before the move to a temporary site, we are beginning work on the deselection (weeding) of the more than 80,000 items in our government document collection. Reference staff will follow a carefully orchestrated plan in partnership with FDLP to list these items, making them available to other FDLP sites prior to disposing of them. Some items with unique information or considerable demand may be retained.  Many other St. Louis area universities and public libraries will remain as FDLP sites that collect physical items as well as electronic. The weeding process is ongoing and expected to require at least one full year to conclude. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	Traditionally, the Library only purchased TV shows on DVD if they were no longer in active production, with some exceptions made for Emmy award winning titles. Recent consideration by staff and interest by our patrons led to the conclusion that this is not the best practice and it did not maximize the potential usage of the DVD collection. The Library will now include current TV shows in its selection process. This change should result in a collection that is more responsive to the interests of the patrons, and the circulation on this part of the collection is expected to increase. (Plan: Sense of Community 1)
	The ITS department is preparing for disaster recovery and data center mobility as approved by the Library Board in March. Working behind the scenes before opening hours and on weekends, the networking staff in ITS have successfully reconfigured the networks at Oak Bend and Indian Trails. This effort has overcome numerous hurdles and required collaboration with nine different vendors as we reconfigured these branches’ PCs, printers, phones, RFID equipment, security cameras, HVAC controllers and the door lock system. In addition, Eric Hammann in ITS developed a monitoring program that helps the department visually track the network throughout the District. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth explained that Library employees will have stickers to hand out to our youngest readers at the branches and HQ. These will be available shortly after the start of Summer Reading Club. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Due to flooding and the corresponding closure of Eureka Hills and Meramec Valley branches, the Library will give patrons extra time to pick up items that are on hold for them at the branches. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth had mentioned in a previous meeting that the Library received a grant for the promotion of Summer Reading Club which includes social media, print media etc.  Billboards at three locations in St. Louis County will also promote the Club. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library will host a series of free, outdoor concerts this summer called Listen Up STL Live. The first concert will be held on Tuesday, May 16, at 7:00 p.m. in the Jai Nagarkatti Monsanto Company Reading Garden. The concert will feature Letter to Memphis, a local indie folk band.  The concert series is named after the Library’s new streaming music service, Listen Up STL, which invites local musicians to upload their music to the library’s website. All of the bands featured in the concert series also participate in Listen Up STL. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.3)
Listen Up STL Concert Series Schedule:
	Tuesday, May 16, 7:00 p.m. Featuring indie folk band Letter to Memphis.
	Tuesday, July 11, 7:00 p.m. Featuring Americana musician Chris Griffith.
	Thursday, August 31, 7:00 p.m. Featuring blues musician Kyle Walz.
	Tuesday, September 12, 7:00 p.m. Featuring bluesy rock by MO Bottom Project.
	The Library will provide access to YourSTLCourts.com, a new web-based service that helps people navigate the municipal justice system, on all public computers.  YourSTLCourts puts St. Louis County Municipal Court records into one, no-cost, mobile-friendly online portal where people can easily access their traffic ticket information, rights in court, court locations, operating hours and procedures. With 84 different courts in St. Louis County, it is easy to lose track of when and where to pay traffic tickets. YourSTLCourts.com links ticket information for many of the municipalities and the unincorporated areas of St. Louis County. St. Louis County Library will include a link to YourSTLCourts.com on all public computers, making it even easier for residents to take advantage of this free service. This project has been in process for over a year and has been mentioned on several occasions in previous reports.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library will begin sending pre-overdue notices to patrons on all materials checked out on May 30, 2017 or after. On June 4, the first pre-overdue notices will be delivered via email to patrons two days before an item is due. Patrons will also receive a notice when an item is three days past due so they may take advantage of the Library’s grace period. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Last month, several Library administrators met with representatives from the Clark-Fox Family’s Blueprint for Summer STL organization, which has designed an easy-to-use website that connects St. Louis area kids to summer learning opportunities.  Library programs will be included this summer and we are exploring joint promotional opportunities with the organization. In addition, public computers now include a link to the Blueprint for Summer STL website. We also were notified that the organization is supporting two Library programs: Coding 101 at Indian Trails and two sessions of Lego Build at two yet to be determined branches. (Plan: Sense of Community 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth and Eric Button met with representatives from the St. Louis Economic Development’s Promise Zone Team. They discussed many ways to partner. The Library will be part of the Educational Outcomes Committee.  In addition, we will present the Career Online High School program to the Workforce Development Committee. They also discussed the further expansion of the Library’s Recycled Reads Program in the Promise Zone within St. Louis County. The Library is currently working with St. Louis County Government to bring Recycled Reads to four County facilities. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	A  number of great photos were shown to the Board from several programs and events including:  Star Wars at Grant’s View, Dress Up Party at Eureka Hills, New in the Lou: 3D Printing at Grand Glaize, and Author Julia Donaldson at HQ. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth reported that the Missouri Libraries have received word that the House-Senate Conference Committee voted to set the appropriation for public libraries at $2 million which is $400,000 less than what the House had added earlier in the session. With the latest revenue report for Missouri showing a significant shortfall, it is likely that the Governor may veto and/or withhold additional dollars.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Amy Hanaway, Regional Branch Administrator, worked with Building Systems to make changes to the floor plan at HQ.  The new layout will change the arrangement of shelves to accommodate large author events. Currently, the aging shelves must be shifted and moved for every large author event held in the main reading room.  This new arrangement will mean less moving and less wear and tear on the shelves. In addition, this will significantly reduce the physical effort of Library employees who move the shelves in preparation for a large event. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
	The RFQ for Phase 3 Architectural and Engineering Services was posted on the Library’s website on May 1. The proposals for the design of HQ are due on May 19th and a recommendation to the Board will be made at the July Library Board Meeting. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	The Emerson Technology Center at Natural Bridge continues to be very popular with patrons. The Branch averages fourteen visitors for the two hours each night that the Center is open while the rest of the Library is closed. March was the highest average attendance with 16 patrons per night. Some nights as many as thirty or forty patrons use the Center. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.1)
	All of the paperwork for the design and construction of a new Mid-County Branch was submitted to the City of Clayton on May 5. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	Steve Hunter assisted Ms. Sorth in reporting on the condition of the HQ waterpipe.  As mentioned in previous reports, the fire protection system at HQ is fed with a 6” steel water pipe that runs in a 200’+ tunnel under the building. That pipe is deteriorating. Leaks are visible in the tunnel, and flow monitoring gauges (designed to indicate moving water inside the pipe) are in alarm mode. We replaced one section of pipe several weeks ago and initially thought that was a sufficient repair. Unfortunately, the deterioration is progressing and other leaks are now occurring. Should the system fail catastrophically, the flow from the pipe would overwhelm the pump in the tunnel and there could be flooding on the first floor.  We asked engineering firm KJWW for assistance. They visited the site and reviewed the problem with our Building Systems staff.  KJWW recommends immediate action, and has given us three alternatives for repair:
	Replace only the leaking section of pipe (least expensive, low chance of overall success)
	Replace the entire length of pipe (most expensive, high chance of success)
	Bypass the entire pipe with new pipe that runs above ground, inside the downstairs hallways (expensive, high chance of success, disruptive to operations)
Administration is currently evaluating and pricing these options. This is further complicated by the planned demolition of HQ in early 2019 and our consequent hesitation to invest in this building. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library has been notified of several grant awards as well as a large donation from a major corporate sponsor. The Foundation will receive $7,000 from the Norman J. Stupp Foundation for the expansion of Gift of Reading to middle school students in the Normandy and Ritenour School districts. The St. Louis Blues have awarded the Foundation $5,000 in support of Born to Read. In addition, Emerson is donating $40,000 for the Discovery Zone at Florissant Valley. Jim Bogart and Ms. Sorth met with Emerson to discuss plans for the Branch and they were thrilled to lend their support. Emerson will also be a sponsor of the Gala. As mentioned in a previous report, the Dana Brown Foundation has also awarded the Library with $20,000 for the Florissant Valley Young Explorers area. The Florissant Valley Discovery Zone will include signage that will acknowledge both donors.
	The Foundation held another Born to Read fundraiser on April 26. Butler’s Pantry graciously offered to host the event at Bixby’s in the History Museum. Sixty people attended the event which raised $24,000 for Born to Read.
	Representatives from the Sachs Branch received a Monarch/Pollinator Nexus Recognition Award at the City of Chesterfield’s Earth Day celebration for providing the plants and habitat in the Jai Nagarkatti Monsanto Company Reading Garden. They also received a plaque from the National Wildlife Federation for the Garden as a Certified Wildlife Habitat.
Edith Cunnane suggested a conference call to approve whatever the recommendation is for the water pipe at HQ so they don't have to wait for a Board meeting. Dr. Beckwith concurred.
Author Events
	Leigh Montville, “Sting Like a Bee”, Tuesday, May 16, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Jeff Schaara, “The Frozen Hours”, Tuesday, May 23, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Steve Hamilton, “Exit Strategy”, Thursday, May 25, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Mo Willems, “Welcome”, Tuesday, May 30, 6:00 p.m, Headquarters. This event is sold out.
	Reed Farrel Coleman, Blake Crouch, Hilary Davidson, Peter Blauner with a special guest appearance by Maureen Corrigan, NPR Book Critic and Mystery Genre Expert, Thursday, June 8, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Ken Ilgunas, “Trespassing Across America”, Monday, June 12, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Dr. Michelle Stevens, “Scared Selfless,” Tuesday, June 13, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Victoria Bruce with Jim Kennedy, “Sellout”, Monday, June 19, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
Dr. Beckwith was concerned about staff time for notifying patrons about overdue books.  Ms. Sorth assured him that no additional staff was involved outside of the System Administrator Manager, Stephanie Nordmann.
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter reported that Bridgeton Trails is on track for reopening in June.
Florissant Valley is on schedule to open in July. Mr. Hunter shared pictures of the progression, including an update on the Discovery Zone area.
Daniel Boone is progressing nicely. Mr. Hunter commented that the branch should be ready to open in September.
Mr. Hunter also reported on the next phase of the plan.
MOVE MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT SERVICE
Steve Hunter presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for move management consultant services for the Headquarters building.
Mr. Hunter explained that Phase 3 of the Your Library Renewed program involves the closure, demolition, and rebuilding of the HQ building. HQ Public Service employees will be reassigned to various branches during the closure. The other 165 HQ employees – including those in Administration, ITS, Customer Connect, Cataloging, Processing, Acquisitions, Bookmobiles, Building Systems, etc. – and all their equipment will be relocated to a temporary facility for the approximately two-year duration of the project. The logistics involved in this move are highly complex and will require a level of specialized expertise and a time commitment outside of our current resources.
Administration believes an outside consultant with experience in large, complex moves will be an essential part of a successful relocation. An RFQ for Move Management Consulting Services was posted to our website on March 13, 2017. Responses were due March 24, 2017. Their response included an hourly rate sheet. The procurement process and results were discussed with Lashly & Baer.
The approved 2017 budget includes $35,000 for this work. Administration will use $35,000 as a first year, not-to-exceed value when writing the contract.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to accept the response from Landmark Contract Management, Inc. for Move Management Consulting Services related to Phase 3 as the most qualified firm and having a fair and reasonable fee, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Cunnane/Kenyon).
LIBRARY CLOSURE POLICY
Kristen Sorth presented the Library Administration’s recommendation to approve the revised Library Closure Policy.
On several occasions each year, Library Administration submits a request to the Library Board for an early closure due to an author event or the Library Gala. There are other occasions when the Library is closed due to weather related events or other security concerns such as a power outage.
The addition of the Library Closure Policy was shared with the Board. This policy authorizes the Library Director to make decisions regarding the closure of the Library in certain circumstances which includes the safety of Library patrons and/or employees and when a closure is requested for a period of less than a full day for a Library or Foundation event.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the Library Closure Policy, which delegates to the Library Director, the authority to close or limit public access to Library facilities in certain circumstances as defined by the policy (Cunnane/Tai).
SIERRA LICENSES
Kathy Wiese, Central Services Administrator, presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for the purchase of an additional 100 Sierra licenses.
Ms. Wiese reported that the Library recently upgraded to the Sierra Integrated Library System (ILS) in March 2017. The Sierra contract includes 300 simultaneous users. Since the Library has started using the Sierra ILS, there have been several occasions when all licenses were in use, leading to lost access to the software and an obstacle to patron service. Library Administration feels that these additional licenses are needed now and in the future to meet patron service needs.
With the upcoming re-opening of Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley and Daniel Boone Branches, it is anticipated that even more user licenses will be needed. Innovative Interfaces Incorporated, the Library’s ILS, offered two options: 50 Licenses: $11,250 per year; 100 Licenses: $15,000 per year. Given this pricing structure and considering current and future needs, the Library recommends the purchase of an additional 100 Sierra licenses. This purchase will be added to the annual licensing cost for the Sierra ILS.
The Library Board approved the Library Administration’s recommendation for the purchase of an additional 100 Sierra licenses from Innovative Interfaces Incorporated, at a first year cost of $15,000, and that the Board authorizes the Library Director to enter into and execute any necessary contracts with III. Year one expenses are accounted for in the 2017 Library Software and License Budget (Cunnane/Kenyon).
POLICY I - PROCUREMENT POLICY
Kristen Sorth presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for the approval of the revised Procurement Policy.
Ms. Sorth reported that Policy I of the Library Board’s Procurement Policy was last revised and approved by the Library Board on February 9, 2015. The Library Administration is submitting a restatement of the Policy to the Library Board for approval. The restated policy reflects current law as well as best practices.
The Library Administration conducted extensive research during the review of Policy I. In addition to discussions with Lashly & Baer and the Library’s auditor, Kerber, Eck and Braekel, the Library surveyed peer libraries in the United States and comparable libraries in Missouri. Sixteen total libraries were surveyed. A majority of the libraries had a threshold for Board approval of $25,000 or higher and in many cases included no requirement for Board approval. The most common threshold was $50,000. The highlights of the proposed changes are included below and an edited version of the changes is attached along with a clean copy of the policy. As mentioned below, the most significant change to this policy is the threshold for Board approval.
The current threshold of $10,000 has been in place since the policy was originally adopted by the Library Board in 1990. The cost of products and services from inflation as well as the growth of the St. Louis County Library District in the last 27 years has been significant. In addition, this change will streamline procedures for Library employees.
Summary of Proposed Changes:
 · The most significant change to the policy is raising the threshold, at which Board approval for purchases is required, from $10,000 to $20,000.
· Projects with a probable cost of $20,000 or more will be approached through either sealed bids for an Invitation for Bid (IFB), Requests for Proposals (RFP), or through Sole Source procurement. The revision of the policy permits the Library to utilize any of the three procedures as determined by the Library Director to be in the best interest of the Library.
 · The procedures for the category of Requests for Proposals (RFP) and Invitation for Bids (IFB) between $10,000 and $19,999 have been completely removed from the policy since these will no longer require issuing an RFP or IFB.
· In the procedures for both the RFP and the IFB, the policy now allows notices to proposers and bidders to be shared through alternate means other than a newspaper, such as a web site or other sources for notification, unless advertisement in a newspaper is required by applicable law.
· The new policy further clarifies the definition of a Sole Source.
· Projects costing less than $20,000 but more than $5,000 will generally require quotations from at least three vendors. Exceptions to this rule include the determination that a good or service is Sole Source as described in this policy. The section also reinforces that the current Procurement Policy’s requirement for three quotations may be waived if the Director or the Director’s designee identifies one or more of the exceptions in the policy that apply to a situation.
· The Policy reorganizes and reinforces existing categories of exceptions to this policy such as purchase of library materials, cooperative purchases, annual software renewal and maintenance agreements, utilities, and emergencies. The proposed changes to Policy I will guide the Library in the procurement process and reflects current law and best practices.
Library Administration recommends the approval of the revisions to the Procurement Policy, currently found in the By-Laws of the Board of Trustees Article VIII, Section 1, Policy I. Auditors were not concerned about raising the threshold or the attorney.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the approval of the revisions to the Procurement Policy, currently found in the By-Laws of the Board of Trustees Article VIII, Section 1, Policy I (Kenyon/Tai).
NAMING RIGHTS REQUEST FROM THE FOUNDATION
Kristen Sorth presented the Library Administration’s for the approval of the Foundation’s request to name the children’s discovery zone space at Florissant Valley.
The Library Foundation Board of Directors recommends that the Library Board of Trustees name the children’s discovery zone space at the renovated Florissant Valley Branch in honor of two major donors; Emerson and the Dana Brown Charitable Trust. Emerson and the Dana Brown Charitable Trust have made gifts of $40,000 and $20,000, respectively for this project. In order to provide the much deserved recognition of both donors, we propose that the following names be approved: The Emerson Children’s Discovery Zone, The Dana Brown Charitable Trust Early Explorers Area.
The Library Board of Trustees, per its naming policy, makes all final decisions on naming rights for Library buildings, rooms or features. The policy states that naming of children’s spaces or meeting rooms may be done in recognition of individuals or groups who have made a significant financial or other contribution that advances the mission of the Library to serve its community. The full policy was shared with the Board.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s request for the approval of the Foundation’s request to name the children’s discovery zone space at Florissant Valley Branch in honor of two donors; Emerson and the Dana Brown Charitable Trust (Cunnane/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
Edith Cunnane made a motion to adjourn the meeting.  Elena Kenyon seconded.  All approved with voice vote.  Aye: Edith Cunnane, Dr. Chingling Tai, Elena Kenyon, Dr. Lynn Beckwith
The meeting adjourned at 4:34 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_____________________________                          _________________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date