{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AHPPXB6208F5",
  "date": "2017-04-24T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, APRIL 24, 2017
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 24, 2017 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Edith Cunnane, Vice President
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary, via telephone
Mr. Michael Mulligan, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Construction and Facilities; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Heather Arnold, SLCL Practicum Student; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Mary Meyer, Nicole Clawson, Alaina Culbertson, Lori Boschert, Kathy Wiese, Laura Kasak, Allison Wisniewski, Carla Maxwell, Stephanie Nordmann, Roz Kohen, Sarah Brown, Sarah Wood, Barb Reale, Steve Hibbler, Cheri Remington, Conrad Rader, Erin Magner, Marsha Ramey, Marie Conlin, Michelle Sawicki, Tracy Fletcher, Natalia Catlett, Lindsey Piech, Julie Cruise, Katie Holland, Gina Sheridan, Annie Fuller, Chasidy Allen, Catherine Hill, Jennifer Alexander, Tiffany Davis, Donna Spaulding, Rachel Nowell, Aaron Eller, Scott Holl, Kris Mooney, Jennifer McBride, Anna Schurk, Keir Haug, Anne Bradley, Connie Dee, Marlee Keeven, Lauren Striebel, Mary Arnhart, Rebecca Clark, Stacy Berger, Cindy Schultz, Anna Gonzalez, Kathy Muller, Amy Hanaway, Deanna Davis, Andrea Johnson, Paul Bayless, Michael Cohen, Maureen Willmann, Anne Arthur, Ross Brand, Sri Upadhya, and Sandy Williams.
Dr. Beckwith opened the meeting and announced that Elena Kenyon, Board Treasurer, had an excused absence.  She was being honored in Jefferson City with the Lieutenant Governor’s Senior Service Award. The award recognizes seniors who positively impact their communities through service and volunteering.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the March 20, 2017 minutes (Cunnane/Mulligan).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in March, the Library District received $259,397 in TIF surplus disbursements from the St. Louis County Collector of Revenue.  The Collector of Revenue is now mostly up to date in processing these payments.
The Library District paid $24,151 to GFI Digital Inc. for copier and printer service from February 13, 2017 through April 12, 2017. GFI Digital Inc. recently became our managed print provider, approved by the Board at the December 2016 meeting. These expenses are in line with the 2017 budget.
Also, in March, the Library District made a payment to Interpersonal Frequency for the website redesign in the amount of $18,600. Additionally, Interpersonal Frequency was paid $18,000 for hosting fees for the District’s website. Both expenses were part of the 2017 budget. The hosting fees were approved by the Board at the December, 2016 meeting and the website design was approved by the Board at the June, 2016 meeting.
The Library District transferred funds to the trustee of the Library’s Certificate of Participation funds, BOKF, to pay the annual principal payment of $2,850,000 and the April interest payment of $2,099,567. These payments were made by our trustee on April 1, 2017 and are included in the 2017 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for March 2017 was $3,051,918. The expenses included payments for:
	Construction Costs for Phase 2a buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone) - $1,730,440
	Design Costs for Phase 2 buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Thornhill, Mid-County) - $352,814
	Construction Costs for Phase 1Bb buildings (Samuel C. Sachs, Oak Bend, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Cliff Cave) - $342,492
	Construction management services for Phase 2a buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone) - $241,201
	Construction management services for all Phase 1 buildings - $181,782
	Furniture & Fixtures for Phase 2a buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone) – $91,608
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $37,290
	Technology costs for Phase 2a buildings (Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Daniel Boone)  - $11,030
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Mulligan).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth presented the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the dashboard report for April with the Board. The report includes information about circulation, visits, programming, new patron registrations and PC usage. With various branches closed for construction, circulation for March is down just 1%.  Several branches saw significant increases.  The circulation at Sachs exceeded all branches. Jamestown was up 42%, Rock Road was up 36%, and Eureka Hills was up 26%.  Those same branches also saw significant increases in visits. The report also includes information about the most popular items in the collection and information on outreach and programming.
	Ms. Sorth explained that a new collection of American Sign Language Stories has been added to the Library’s eMedia collection. The collection includes animated nursery rhymes, poems and songs, classic fairytales and folktales and modern picture books - all performed in American Sign Language, with supporting captions, narration and music.  In addition, the Library recently purchased online database access to the Historical St. Louis Post-Dispatch from 1923 to 2003. This database will extend our coverage of the Post and provide patrons with searchable access to full text and full image articles.  Currently, the newspapers are being digitized and then posted as they become available.  This should be complete by the end of August.  The Library has also added additional eBooks through OneClickdigital. This new collection gives patrons simultaneous access to almost 5,000 titles with new titles added each month. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.3)
	We Are St. Louis is an adult series that explores the wide variety of identities, cultures and ethnicities in St. Louis. The programs consist of history, dance, musical performances, and interactive workshops. We Are St. Louis is funded by a grant from the Missouri State Library. The most recent program explored Bosnian Heritage at a program on April 13 at Grant’s View. Seventy-nine people attended the event. This program completes the grant cycle. The Library will start the programs again in August. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2)
	Play-Well and the Library will offer a great program at the Grant’s View Branch on Sunday, May 21 with sessions at 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. Those attending will participate in a massive St. Louis Build using LEGOs. Attendees will construct St. Louis landmarks out of LEGOs and explore hands on architecture while learning how buildings are so strong. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the History and Genealogy Department will be teaching classes for the public at various branches this summer. Topics include Beginning Genealogical Research, Census Basics, Tracing African American Ancestors, and Finding Immigrant Ancestors among others. The Department will also offer classes for staff on using genealogy databases at the branches. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	The St. Louis County Library was recognized by Grace Hill Women’s Business Center with their Entrepreneur Champion Award. Grace Hill is a public/private partnership with the U.S. Small Business Administration dedicated to providing micro-business development for aspiring women with a focus on minority entrepreneurs. They recognized the amazing work of the Library’s Reference Department and the Library’s Small Business Series. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth shared that last month the Library Board approved closing early for popular children’s author Mo Willems. Tickets to the event went on sale Monday, April 10 and sold out in 8 minutes. Almost 800 people will attend the event on May 30, 2017. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1.2)
	The Youth Services Department is planning an Educator Open House for September 19 from 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. Attendees will learn about the services the Library offers for educators and their students. There will be various stations at the event that promote library resources and services such as STEM programming, reference and database information, and many others. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3)
	Several Library administrators have met with representatives from the Clark-Fox Family’s Blueprint for Summer STL organization which has designed an easy-to-use mobile app that connects St. Louis area kids to summer learning opportunities. Library programs will be included in the app this summer and the Library is exploring joint promotional opportunities with the organization. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Grant’s View Branch will hold their annual Star Wars Fan Fest on May 5 in the evening.  Last year attendance exceeded expectations at 1,400 people and parking was a major issue.  Previous attendance at the Tesson Ferry Branch was around 300.  This year we are planning for another large crowd to enjoy crafts and snacks and to meet the members of the 501st Legion. In addition, the branch will show the movie Rogue One at the event.  To address parking concerns, Grant’s Farm has allowed the Library to use their parking lot for overflow parking and the Library’s Foundation has agreed to fund transportation from the lot to the Grant’s View Branch. (Plan: Strengthen Sense of Community 2.3)
	St. Louis Public Library Director, Waller McGuire, and Ms. Sorth have had several meetings to discuss a new educational opportunity for patrons that would allow access to classes at both local and national colleges and universities. Telos is being developed by Brendan Lind, co-creator of LaunchCode, a million dollar enterprise which was started in St. Louis and has now expanded to cities all over the United States. LaunchCode was originally designed to place non-traditional applicants in technology jobs in St. Louis.  Mr. Lind is in talks with various educational institutions in Missouri about Telos as well as our two Library systems.  Both, Waller McGuire and Ms. Sorth will continue to work with Brendan on this endeavor and feel this is a great future opportunity for libraries. We plan to formally commit to the program.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	A new computer program for youth called Coding 101 was offered in February and March at Natural Bridge. Participants were able to use the Google CS First platform to do Scratch coding. Participants who attended all of the sessions received a free Chromebook. Funding for this program was provided by the SLCL Foundation. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.1)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth showed a number of great photos to the Board from several programs and events including: Special Story Time at Oak Bend, Earn a Bike Finale at Weber Road, STArt; Watercolor Doodling at Rock Road, author C.J. Box at HQ, Discovery Club; Science of Color at Grand Glaize, Warm Up America at Weber Road, Exploring Alzheimer's; Every Minute Counts at Grant’s View, Preschool Photo Booth at Indian Trails, and We Are STL; Bosnian Heritage at Grant’s View. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library is launching a new staff recognition initiative. This new program is called the "High Five" Program. The objective is to encourage and increase staff acknowledgement through the exchange of a personal Thank You card.  Each branch/department has a supply of Thank You cards. When an employee recognizes that another co-worker has gone above and beyond the call of duty, they can acknowledge them with a Thank You card. Employees can send cards to co-workers in the same branch/department or can send them to an employee at another location.
	Currently, the federal government is operating on a continuing resolution passed in December 2016, through April 28, 2017. As a result, the Missouri State Library has not yet received a full award notice from the Institute of Museum and Library Services for LSTA FY2017 funds. Because of this, decisions on the long term grant applications received February 1, 2017 have been delayed.
	The annual biometric screenings for full-time employees will take place in July.
	Retirement planning meetings will be held in May and again in October for full-time employees.  The Library’s Deferred Comp/457 Plan Administrator will conduct the meetings.
	Ms. Sorth announced that at the May Managers’ Meeting, Professor Terry Jones from UMSL will talk about the history of St. Louis and its neighborhoods and how that history still influences us today.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that an additional staff station was added at Lewis & Clark near the copy and business center to better assist patrons in this area of the Library.  A large number of requests for service come from patrons using the equipment in the business center.  In addition, we plan to purchase and test radio communication devices for the branch staff.  The devices would allow staff to communicate with one another instantly regardless of their location in the building. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 2.2)
	Teen signage will be added at the Sachs Branch to better identify the teen space. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1)
	The main supply line for the HQ fire sprinkler system is deteriorating.  Building Systems has repaired one section and continues to monitor the system.  (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation Board has approved their support of the Career Online High School program.  This program will be discussed in detail later in the Board Meeting.  The Board also approved expanding the Summer Lunch Program by providing weekend meals for families that attend the Summer Lunch Program at Library branches.  The Weekend Backpack Program is a service provided by Operation Food Search. In addition, they approved the expansion of the middle school Gift of Reading Program to the Ritenour School District which is supported by the Rock Road Branch.
	Delta Dental will be supporting the Born to Read program.  They will also provide a toothbrush for inclusion in the bag and will provide for another toothbrush at the one year birthday parties.
Author Events
	Elizabeth Kostova, “The Shadow Land”, Monday, April 24, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters Auditorium. Doors open at 6:00 p.m., an onstage interview with historical suspense author Charles Finch.
	Elizabeth Strout, “Anything is Possible, Tuesday, May 2, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters, Auditorium.
	David Grann, “Killers of the Flower Moon”, Wednesday, May 3, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters Auditorium.
	Stephanie Danler, “Sweetbitter”, Thursday, May 4, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters Auditorium.
	Ace Atkins, “Robert B. Parker’s Little White Lies”, Monday, May 8, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters Auditorium.
	Yaa Gyasi, “Homegoing”, Wednesday, May 10, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters Auditorium.
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Three projects are currently in construction at Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, and Daniel Boone and are nearing completion.  Bridgeton Trails will be turned over on April 28.
Florissant Valley is scheduled to be turned over to the Library near the end of May, or beginning of June.
Thornhill, Mid County, Meramec Valley, and Grand Glaize are scheduled to close in 2018 and Headquarters will close in 2019.
DISCOVERY ZONE
Amy Hanaway, Regional Branch Administrator, gave a Powerpoint presentation on two Discovery Zones to open this year at the Florissant Valley and Daniel Boone branches.
Ms. Hanaway explained that the areas are designed to create literacy packed play spaces. The children’s areas are true destination locations for encouraging learning.
The lower levels of Florissant Valley and Daniel Boone branches will house the entire children’s areas. The zones are in a closed area and feature magnetic panels for manipulation, interactive LED displays, and literacy panels. They are embedded with tools and features that get kids ready to read.  The area incorporates STEM (Science Technology and Math) into learning. Ms. Hanaway shared pictures and videos of many of the products that will be in the Discovery Zones with the Board.
2016 LIBRARY AUDIT
Kris Mooney gave the report on the 2016 Library Audit in the absence of the auditor, Rick Gratza.
The 2016 independent audit for the Library was shared with the Board. The audit includes the operation of the Library Foundation. The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) has issued an unmodified opinion. An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements. This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Library Board accepted the report of the independent audit. Copies of the audit will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The audit will also be available on the Library’s website (Cunnane/Mulligan).
LIBRARY CODE OF CONDUCT
Eric Button presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for approval of revisions to the Library Code of Conduct.
The Library Code of Conduct was most recently revised by the Library Board in June 2016. The highlights of the changes, which were reviewed by Lashly & Baer, are included below and an edited version of the changes was shared with the Board.
Summary of Proposed Changes:
	A qualifying statement about bringing weapons onto Library property was added to reflect the impact of recent changes to Missouri’s Conceal Carry laws (MO Rev. Statutes 571.030).
	The prohibition of tobacco use and smoking in all forms now extends to the entire Library property. This change establishes all SLCL facilities as smoke-free campuses.
	The Library Director is given the authority to make exceptions to the prohibition of alcohol for certain Library and/or Foundation events. The current statement allows for exceptions but does not specify who has the authority to make exceptions.
	Persons of any age with mental, physical or emotional problems who require supervision should be accompanied by a parent, guardian, or caregiver. The former statement limited this to children, but the need extends to any persons with one of the above special needs.
	The final paragraph which addresses banning procedures now includes a statement that automatically extends the length of a revocation of library privileges by 30 days when an individual knowingly violates the ban and enters any Library property.
	All occurrences of the word “customer” have been changed to “patron” to match the vernacular that is more commonly used at SLCL. In addition to the above list, the change to smoke-free campuses negates the need for the current Smoking Policy, which was originally established by the Library Board in 2009 and later revised on October 19, 2015.
	This policy addressed the permissible smoking locations on Library property. Since the proposed Library Code of Conduct prohibits smoking or tobacco use anywhere on Library property it would be necessary to repeal this policy. This policy is also attached for reference.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the revisions to the Library Code of Conduct and the subsequent repeal of the Smoking Policy dated October 19, 2015 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
SELF-SERVICE SCANNING AND FAXING
Eric Button presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for approval of a vendor to provide a total of nine units for self-service scanning and faxing services.
These scanning and faxing units would be added to several branches that do not already have one including, Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Eureka Hills, Grand Glaize, Meramec Valley, Mid-County, and Thornhill, along with two locations receiving a second unit for a total of nine (9) new units. Lewis & Clark and Rock Road have such high demand for the service that a second unit is required at each location. The scanning and faxing solution allows patrons to independently scan important documents or pictures, and when necessary, fax those images to a destination for a minimal per page faxing fee. Scanning is offered at no cost. The Library has offered this equipment at select locations for several years and it has been heavily used by patrons. A complete unit consists of a touch screen computer, a flatbed scanner, a document feeder, and a coin and bill accepter with a bill recycler.
A Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on March 2, 2017. The RFP was posted to the Library’s web page and several vendors, including vendors from the Missouri Directory of Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises were notified of the RFP. In addition, an ad was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Proposals were received from three vendors.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the lowest and best proposal from Today’s Business Solutions at a cost of $62,910 and that the Board authorizes the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with Today’s Business Solutions to provide nine self-service scanning and faxing units. Units purchased for Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Grand Glaize, Meramec Valley, and Thornhill will be funded through bond proceeds, while the units for Eureka Hills, Lewis & Clark, and Rock Road will be purchased using the Equipment budget (Mulligan/Cunnane).
CAREER ONLINE HIGH SCHOOL
Kristen Sorth presented the Library Administration recommendation that the Library Board approve the Career Online High School initiative project.
Ms. Sorth explained that since late 2016, Library Administration has been exploring the option of offering an online high school program to patrons. St. Louis County alone has over 50,000 adults over 25 years of age without a high school diploma. Gale, a company that provides education, learning and research resources to libraries throughout the country including St. Louis County Library, provides the service. The Career Online High School is a high school diploma program for adult learners, 25 years of age or older. It is the only accredited online high school in the United States and several public libraries around the country are currently offering the program. This program has an 80% completion rate.
As was mentioned previously in the Director’s Report, Ms. Sorth approached St. Charles City-County Library and St. Louis Public Library about working together on this project as a regional venture. Various administrators and managers from the three systems have met on numerous occasions to move this project forward. The program has a significant fundraising component. All three library foundations will fundraise to provide individual scholarships to those enrolling in the program. The St. Louis County Library Foundation Board approved the program at their Board Meeting on April 11, 2017 and have committed to supporting the program by fundraising for 50 scholarships.
Financially, the program will work in the following way. St. Louis County Library will hold the contract with Gale but will have a Memorandum of Understanding with St. Charles City-County Library and St. Louis Public Library for their portion of the cost. Bundling the program between the three systems significantly reduces the cost. Each system will receive a credit toward their current Gale resources that makes this program budget neutral for the operating budget.
Plans are underway for joint fundraising opportunities as well as a joint media campaign. The three library systems believe that this program is a significant and worthy investment in the region and look forward to working together on the project.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the Career Online High School initiative project and authorizes the Director to enter into and execute contracts to implement the project including 1) the Memorandum of Understanding between the St. Louis County Library and the St. Louis Public Library and St. Charles City-County Library and 2) the agreement with Gale to provide the services for the project. The initial contribution will be $15,000 for St. Louis County Library and $10,000 each for the other two library systems. St. Louis County Library will pay $35,000 up front and will be reimbursed through the Memorandum of Understanding by St. Charles City-County Library and St. Louis Public Library. In addition, SLCL will receive a $25,000 credit toward our current resources to offset the initial contribution and a portion of the scholarships. The remaining $50,000 will be raised by the St. Louis County Library Foundation (Cunnane/Mulligan).
Dr. Beckwith mentioned that he would like the Library to notify the St. Louis County superintendents so there is an understanding of no competition.
"MY CARD. MY WAY" CAMPAIGN WITH ST. LOUIS PUBLIC LIBRARY
Kristen Sorth presented the Library Administration’s recommendation for a joint media campaign with the St. Louis Public Library.
The Library Administration was invited to participate in a joint media campaign with St. Louis Public Library. The campaign will be called “My Card. My Way” and will feature a series of television commercials focusing on the wide variety of programs and services offered by the two library districts, such as eMedia, genealogy research, job skills assistance and small business resources. St. Louis Public Library will coordinate the media buys by purchasing ad time on the following local television stations: KSDK, KTVI/KPLR, KETC and KMOV. The campaign will begin later this year and will run through December 2017. The cost to participate in the campaign is $25,000. These funds would be used only for the purchase of commercial airtime on the stations mentioned above. The 2017 Library Budget included funds for a promotional video project; however, Library Administration feels the joint media campaign with St. Louis Public Library would reach a broader audience.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s request to spend $25,000 for the joint media campaign with St. Louis Public Library to purchase ad time on various local television stations (Cunnane/Mulligan).
RECRUITING EFFORTS
Kristen Sorth gave a report on recruitment efforts at the Library.
The Library Board has requested yearly information regarding the staff complement at the St. Louis County Library. Ms. Sorth shared reports for 2016 and 2017 with the Board which include the following:
1.  A report entitled “Summary Comparison Percentage Chart.” This report combines the data from the “Summary” report and reflects five years of data. It also includes FTE information for the same time frame.
2.  A report entitled “List of Job Titles by Dept/Branch. This is a report that is generated from our HR/Payroll software. The “ethnicity” column contains descriptions designated in our software. The report is divided by department and branch. The departments are listed in alphabetical order beginning after Administration. The branches are next and they are also listed in alphabetical order. Within each branch or department employees are listed by their title only. Employees were sorted in descending order from the employee with the highest pay grade within the branch or department to the lowest pay grade. Individuals with the same title, have the same pay grade.
3.  A one page summary of the above mentioned report entitled “Summary” that is also generated from our HR/Payroll system. This report lists the total number of employees as well as percentages. Several of the departments are grouped together on this report by organizational unit.
4.  A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race.” This document lists each title, the total number of employees with that title and then breaks down the percentage of that title by race. The titles are sorted in descending order from the title with the highest pay grade to the title with the lowest pay grade.
 5. A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race and Gender.” This report is identical to the report mentioned above in number three with the exception that gender has been added to this report.
6. A report entitled “St. Louis County Library – List of New Hires by Location.” This report includes information about the candidates selected for all positions that were posted in this time frame. The report lists the hires by department or branch. I have indicated if a branch or department had no vacancies during that time frame.
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. Cunnane made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); and to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)) Mr. Mulligan seconded.
All approved by voice vote. Aye: Edith Cunnane, Dr. Chingling Tai, Michael Mulligan, Dr. Lynn Beckwith
The meeting adjourned at 4:47 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_____________________________                          _________________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date