{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AV3QT5667E17",
  "date": "2018-02-05T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, February 5, 2018 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Edith Cunnane was present via telephone.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Cassie Summers, Brinkmann Constructors; Cameron Steward, Brinkmann; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Michael Cohen, Rebecca Clarke, Lauren Striebel, Emily Althoff, Natalia Catlett, Maureen Willmann, Annie Fuller, Stacy Berger, Nicole Higginbotham, Chasidy Allen, Gina Sheridan, Rachel Nowell, Donna Spaulding, Laura Kasak, Jennifer McBride, Anna Schurk, Matt Lakin, Steve Hibbler, Nicole Clawson, Amy Gibbons, Keir Haug, Sarah Wood, Allison Wisniewski, Sri Upadhya, Katie Keeven, Tiffany Davis, Cheri Remington, Scott Holl, Andrea Johnson, Kelli Reeves, Alaina Culbertson, Lori Boschert, Meg Coyle, Roz Kohen, Julie Cruise, Marie Conlin, Mary Arnhart, Edith Isele, Barb Reale, Cindy Schultz, Jennifer Alexander, Deanna Davis and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Minutes from the December 18, 2017 meeting were approved by the Library Board (Mulligan/Kenyon).
 PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in December, the Library District received more than $19 million in tax revenue for the 2018 operating year. The Library projects to receive approximately $50 million in total tax revenue for 2018.
In December, the Library District purchased Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) tags for $29,300 from Bayscan Technologies. These supplies are purchased semi-annually and are placed on library materials for inventory and anti-theft purposes.
The Library District paid $22,000 to Daniel & Henry for annual insurance broker services. The recently signed 3-year agreement was approved by the Board at the December 2017 Board Meeting. Additionally, the Library District paid Xtreme Green $16,200 to install the children’s playground at the Prairie Commons Branch. World Wide Technology was paid $49,676 to purchase 950 Microsoft Office Professional Plus software licenses to upgrade the office suite software throughout the District. This purchase was made on a cooperative contract and was included in the 2017 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for December 2017 was $840,144. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Phase 2a buildings - $360,243
		Construction Management services for Phase 2 buildings - $233,520
		Signage for Phase 2a buildings - $44,736
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $31,020
		Construction costs for Mid-County - $20,260
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for February contains end of the year information about circulation, visits, programming, transactions, new patron registrations, and PC usage in 2017. With five branches, including two regional branches, closed at various times for construction in 2017, circulation was up 1% and visits were down just 1%. Program attendance was up 6%, PC usage was up 6%, Wi-Fi sessions were up 16%, and new patron registrations were up 12%.  The Dashboard also highlights notable increases at several branches in 2017.
	Ms. Sorth commended the Black History Committee for their work on the Black History Celebration programming. Library staff at the branches have also scheduled some of their own programming and have great programs for patrons. Ms. Sorth shared the following highlighted programs with the Board.
Judge Jimmie Edwards
2018 Frankie Freeman Inspirational Lecture
Friday, February 23, 7:00 p.m.
Judge Jimmie Edwards, newly appointed Public Safety Director for St. Louis City, will deliver this year’s Frankie Freeman Inspirational Lecture. Judge Edwards formerly served as judge for the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court for the City of St. Louis.
Dr. Art McCoy, Superintendent, Jennings School District, will receive the second annual Frankie Freeman Inspirational Award at the event.
Gentlemen of Vision
Saturday, February 3, 2:00 p.m.
Florissant Valley Branch
Join us for a performance by the nationally acclaimed dance troupe Gentlemen of Vision. All ages.
The Black Rep presents “Letter to Harriet Tubman”
Friday, February 9, 7:00 p.m.
Lewis & Clark Branch
This production examines the history of Harriet Tubman’s times during the Civil War era, through lively period songs and African American spirituals. All ages.
Amanda E. Doyle and Melanie A. Adams, “Standing Up for Civil Rights in St. Louis”
Saturday, February 10, 2:00 p.m.
Florissant Valley Branch
 “Standing Up for Civil Rights in St. Louis” tells the stories of the many ordinary men and women who took extraordinary steps to fight for equal rights in St. Louis. Written for upper elementary school readers, the book presents the long arc of the struggle for civil rights, giving young readers a new perspective.
Set the Night to Music
Friday, February 16, 7:00 p.m.
Florissant Valley Branch
Enjoy the soothing jazz vocals of Wendy Gordon and friends and the urban sounds of the Sumthin Soulful band featuring Truenessia Combs and Dakota Pagen. All ages.
Pinx Academy of Dance: Celebration Performance
Saturday, February 17, 3:00 p.m.
Jamestown Bluffs Branch
Pinx Academy of Dance will showcase young artists performing a variety of styles while embracing their rich cultural traditions.
Tayari Jones, “An American Marriage”
Tuesday, February 20, 7:00 p.m.
An onstage conversation with bestselling novelist Curtis Sittenfeld
“An American Marriage” is a masterpiece of storytelling, an intimate look into the souls of people who must reckon with the past while moving forward—with hope and pain—into the future.
Gift of Gospel
Saturday, February 24, 1:00 p.m.
Florissant Valley Branch
Get ready for an inspirational performance by renowned artist Amber Bullock from BET’s “Sunday Best” program. Bullock is a St. Louis native who is recognized across the United States for her vocal ability. All ages.
(Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the Library will offer Hip Hop Architecture Camp for 40 middle school kids this summer at the Natural Bridge Branch in Normandy on July 7, 14, 21, 28 and August 4. The Hip Hop Architecture Camp is designed to introduce underrepresented youth to architecture, urban planning, creative place making and economic development through the lens of hip hop culture. The Camp is based on the “4C’s” which are Creativity, Collaboration, Communication and Critical Thinking. During the camp, students are paired with architects, urban planners, designers, and hip hop artists to create unique visions for their communities which include the creation of physical models, digital models and the creation of a Hip Hop Architecture track and music video summarizing their designs. Ms. Sorth shared that the Library is meeting with architects and the St. Louis County Planning Department to assist with the program and are thrilled to bring it to St. Louis. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.1)
	The Wi-Fi hotspot lending pilot launched in December with much interest by the media and the public. The Library is coordinating efforts with St. Louis Public Library and has 30 devices available for patron checkout with plans to add 60 more very soon. There are currently 445 holds for a hotspot! (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	Parent Packs became available for checkout in January. These kits are designed to help young children and their caregivers have meaningful, age-appropriate conversations about important topics. Each Parent Pack includes books and a resource list on a specific theme, such as the First Day of School, Death, Potty Training, Friendship and Where do Babies Come From. Adults are encouraged to read the books first then share with their children. The kits are geared towards families with children in second grade or younger.  They are available at the following locations: Bridgeton Trails, Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grant’s View, and HQ. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
	The screening of the commercials produced by the joint media campaign with St. Louis Public Library took place on January 31. Each library selected three patron stories to profile and these will be featured in spots on local television in the spring. The Library selected a small business owner, a family from India whose daughter has completed the 1000 Books Before Kindergarten program, and a mother and step-son who used Mango to learn English. There will also be an accompanying social media campaign to promote these and other patron stories. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library recently purchased hundreds of reference eBooks.  Patrons can access this information 24 hours a day from any location. This is part of the Library's ongoing effort to make reference information more readily available to all patrons both in our branches and HQ and also from home. Many of these resources are discoverable in Catalog + Research.  (Plan: Sense of Community 3.1)
	In March, April, and May several branches will be hosting the Judicial Speakers Bureau.  Each program will have two judges in attendance to speak about various topics including but not limited to the following:
		Domestic Violence: Prevention, Intervention, Consequences
		From Dred Scott to Michael Brown: Race, the Courts and the Pursuit of Equal Justice
		Probate 101: What every family needs to know
		Plessy v Ferguson: Redlining, Restrictive Covenants and Legacy of Unequal Housing
		Constitutional PR: from Publius to Hamilton, the musical
(Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library was one of 32 organizations awarded the opportunity to host: Becoming American: A Documentary Film and Discussion Series on Our Immigration Experience. This six-week public program features documentary film screenings and moderated discussions to encourage informed discussion of immigration issues while considering immigration history. The program series will occur during the grant period of June 1, 2018 and May 31, 2019. The Library is partnering with the Missouri Historical Society, which will host 2 of the 6 sessions at the Missouri History Museum. Dr. Adriano Udani, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, will lead the discussions. Dr. Udani specializes in the study of political attitudes toward immigrant groups and policy decisions that affect immigrant treatment in the United States. He also examines the social and political integration of immigrants and refugees in the St. Louis Metropolitan Region. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4)
	The Library and Operation Food Search are partnering to provide after school meals to children at two branches. The program started at the Weber Road and Natural Bridge branches in January. Both branches serve a healthy grab and go light meal along with activities for kids and teens after school Monday – Friday during the school year. Meals are available free of charge for children ages 5–18. Lewis & Clark will begin the program in the next several weeks. To date, 845 after school meals have been served. We are in discussions with the World Chess Hall of Fame to start a chess club that will be held one day a week at these branches during the after school meal program. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	A number of great photos were shown to the Board from several programs and events in December and January: PAWS From Studying at HQ, ESL Class at Weber Road, Kindergarten Prep at Rock Road, Tech Talks; eMedia Blitz at HQ, Sensory Story Time at Prairie Commons, Coding 101; Fashion and Design at Prairie Commons, Yoga Story Time at Oak Bend, Disney Princess Party at Bridgeton Trails, Teen Lock In; Pizza & Paintbrushes at Meramec Valley, My Little Pony Party at Jamestown Bluffs, STArt; Computer Building at Cliff Cave. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.3, 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
	The Library Board was shown two additional slide shows: Thornhill Moving Day and Gift of Reading at Hoech Middle School. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces and Sense of Community 3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Gib Van Cleve attended a Digital Divide Convening on January 24. St. Louis has been selected as one of thirty new communities to participate in a national program known as ConnectHome USA. The program aims to deliver quality broadband services through a group of partners to a low-income audience. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.3)
	On January 18, Ms. Sorth presented as part of a webinar, along with three other library systems, and shared their experience with Career Online High School. The webinar was presented by Library Journal and Gale Cengage and was available to American Library Association members. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Library Advocacy Day is February 6, 2018. Deputy Director Eric Button is leading a team of five managers to Jefferson City to meet with the Library’s elected officials. (Sense of Community 3.3)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Starting Sunday, February 4, SLCL will temporarily add Bridgeton Trails to the branches that will be open on Sundays. Bridgeton Trails will only be open on Sundays for the duration of Thornhill's closure. When Thornhill reopens, Bridgeton Trails will no longer be open on Sundays. (Plan: Sense of Community 1)
	The monumental stair at Grant’s View was designed to have a seismic expansion joint at its connection to the second floor. As built, the metal stair framing itself had an expansion joint, but the decorative wood panels that wrap the stair did not. Administration has been working with the original contractor for many months to determine the best way of installing an expansion joint that would work effectively during a seismic event but also, importantly, not damage the existing wood panels.  Over the weekend of January 27-28, workers successfully completed the installation of the expansion joint. Workers set up scaffolding after close on Saturday and were done with the work prior to staff arriving on Sunday morning. (Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
	The Library will be posting a “Future Home of Eureka Hills” sign on the land for the new Eureka Hills Branch. (Sense of Community: 1.2)
	The Library has received the next round of incentives in the amount of $3789.67 from Ameren for the efficiencies realized from the construction of Bridgeton Trails. We are waiting to receive incentives from Daniel Boone and Florissant Valley.
	January has been a challenging month for Library facilities with two frozen sprinkler lines and corresponding water damage, two branches with sewer backups, a frozen water meter and several HVAC issues.  Ms. Sorth thanked all of the SLCL employees for their patience during these incidents. (Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the transformer that supplies electricity to HQ failed on Sunday, January 28. The Library and not Ameren, owns the transformer. HQ was without power for part of January 28 and all of January 29 until a generator arrived to supply electricity to HQ. That generator remained in place until Friday, February 2. On that day, the old transformer was removed and the new one was installed.  Due to concerns about a significant disruption in service as well as the significant cost associated with the generator and purchase of a new transformer, Ms. Sorth consulted with legal counsel and the Library Board and was authorized on January 31, 2018 to proceed with the work to replace the transformer with a rented transformer using Section 7 in the Board's Policy I for Procurement. Ms. Sorth signed an agreement with Ameren for an 18-month rental of the transformer and authorized the work by PayneCrest to remove the old transformer and install a new transformer. This quick action saved the Library thousands of dollars. (Create Gathering Spaces 1.3)
	The Policy states:
Section 7. Emergencies. This Policy may be waived by the Director in writing in emergencies involving the health, welfare or safety of individuals or where significant damage or disruption of service would occur if corrective action is not taken quickly. Emergency procurement shall be made with such competition as is practicable under the circumstances. If the emergency does not allow sufficient time for the Procurement Process set forth hereunder, a complete report of actions taken shall be presented to the Board at the next regular or special meeting.
Library Foundation
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation had its first ever $1 million year in revenue!
	Fresh Thyme Market in South County has expressed an interest in supporting the after school meal program at Weber Road with a donation of Fig Bars. In addition, the owners of Nature’s Bakery have also agreed to support the program at both Natural Bridge and Lewis & Clark.
Author Events
	Gregg Hurwitz, "Hellbent,” Monday, February 05, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Jonathan D. Quick, “The End of Epidemics,” Thursday, February 08, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Amanda E. Doyle and Melanie A. Adams, “Standing Up for Civil Rights in St. Louis,” Saturday, February 10, 2018, 2:00 p.m., Florissant Valley Branch.
	George Saunders, “Lincoln in the Bardo,” Saturday, February 17, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Tayari Jones, “An American Marriage,” Tuesday, February 20, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	John Heminway, “In Full Flight,” Monday, February 26, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Christopher Alan Gordon, “Fire, Pestilence and Death:  St. Louis, 1849,” Thursday, March 01, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Steven Pinker, “Enlightenment Now,” Saturday, March 03, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Peter Carey, “A Long Way from Home,” Tuesday, March 06, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Charles Finch, “The Woman in the Water,” Wednesday, March 07, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Elaine Weiss, “The Woman’s Hour,” Monday, March 12, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Chris Bohjalian, “The Flight Attendant,” Tuesday, March 13, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	John Hart, “The Hush,” Monday, March 19, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters .
	Kelly Barnhill, “Dreadful Young Ladies and Other Stories,” Tuesday, March 20, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
NEW BUSINESS
REMOVING BARRIERS TO ACCESS
Eric Button reported to the Board on activities from the last few years that have removed barriers and simplified borrowing from the Library District.
Some of the activities include the removal of fines on juvenile materials in November of 2015 and the invitation to participate in White House ConnectED Library Card Challenge.  This challenge has distributed 50,500 library cards to local students since 2015. The Library modified the computer use policy at the December 2016 Board Meeting and now allows cards with fines to be renewed. Additionally, the Library led changes to reciprocity that removed barriers and restored a spirit of cooperation in the St. Louis region. Many other changes have been made including the simplification of the fines procedures and lowering fine amounts on several item types.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter presented updates on the construction projects. Grand Glaize is currently under construction, Mid-County is undergoing demolition, and Thornhill will be demolished in the near future. Mr. Hunter shared pictures of the Mid-County Branch demolition. Additionally, the construction of the Meramec Valley Branch will go to bid soon and the groundbreaking will take place in April.
CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF GRAND GLAIZE BRANCH
Steve Hunter reported that at the August 2017 Board Meeting, the Board awarded construction contracts for the Grand Glaize Branch in each of 16 work packages. Work on the project started in December. The work is on schedule and the branch should re-open in the summer of this year.
During the submittal process it became apparent that Midwest Service Group, the selected contractor for Work Package #5 – Roofing and Sheet Metal, had not included roofing metal in their bid despite affirming this during their bid review meeting. Since the value of the decking is too large to handle as a change order, Administration decided to re-bid this one work package. Midwest Service Group is surrendering their bid bond.
 On January 18, 2018 the new bid notice was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the St. Louis American, on the SLCL website, on SmartBidNet, and in various plan rooms around the area. Our Construction Manager reached out to both the St. Louis Minority Business Council and the Mid-States Minority Supplier Development Council. The bid documents were made available at MOKAN, Cross Rhodes Reprographics, SLMBC, and online. Bids were due January 30, 2018 and opened that day in a public meeting at Brinkmann Constructors. Four bids were received and reviewed.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the selection of the lowest and best bid from K Meier Roofing at $184,100 and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Mulligan/Kenyon).
INVESTMENTS OF 2018 OPERATING FUNDS
Kris Mooney presented Administration’s recommendation for Investments of 2018 Operating Funds.
Mr. Mooney reported on the results from the St. Louis County Library’s Request for Investment Rates emailed January 25, 2018 and received February 2, 2018. The request was sent to eight St. Louis area banks and one Kansas City area bank. The Library Board reviewed the results for the three financial institutions who returned rate quotes for investment of the $32 million of 2018 operating funds.
The Library Board approved the Administration recommendation for the selection of First Bank who returned the highest average yield of all maturities at 1.699% for the entire portfolio (Tai/Mulligan).
DIGITIZATION RFQ
Kris Mooney presented Administration’s recommendation for Digitization Services for the Finance Department.
Mr. Mooney reported that on November 8, 2017, Library Administration issued an RFP for document scanning services. This service will allow the Finance Department to have all of their documents scanned into searchable files to be stored electronically. Currently, these documents are boxed and stored in the secured vault or file cabinets. Having these files stored electronically will allow the Finance Department to efficiently look up a historical document when needed and address space concerns due to the future construction of Headquarters.
The bid was posted on the Library’s website as well as e-mailed directly to two companies, of which one was a W/MBE participant. Responses were due December 8, 2017, and four companies responded.
The Library board approved the recommendation of administration to select Scanning America, Inc. to perform document scanning services for the Finance Department at a projected cost of $58,800 - $73,500 and that it authorize the Director to enter into a service contract to that effect (Kenyon/Mulligan).
SECURITY SERVICES
Eric Button presented Administration’s recommendation for Security Services at seven library branches.
Mr. Button reported that the Library Administration is seeking approval of a vendor to provide security services at seven library branches, including Florissant Valley, Indian Trails, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Rock Road, and Weber Road. These services are currently provided exclusively by off-duty St. Louis County Police officers and administered directly through the St. Louis County Police Department in an agreement that was originally established in 2008. Representatives of the St. Louis County Police Department reached out to Library Administration in November 2017 to express concerns about the contractual arrangement in light of several forthcoming changes that resulted from the successful passage of Proposition P in St. Louis County. In light of this, Administration sought alternatives to the current contractual arrangement.
A Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on December 21, 2017.  The RFP was posted to the Library’s web page and several vendors, including vendors from the Missouri Directory of Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises were notified of the RFP.  In addition, an ad was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  The RFP required the capacity of an agency to cover at least 248 hours per week exclusively with off-duty St. Louis County Library Police officers.
Proposals were received from two vendors.  Pricing reflects hourly costs per officer and it locks in at that cost for a period of three years according to the terms of the RFP.  The total annual cost is based on an estimated number of coverage hours each year, which is 12,610 hours.  Proposals were reviewed by Steve Hunter, Emily Althoff, and Eric Button and all ranked Hudson Services as the strongest proposal based on several factors, including their considerable experience in providing and administering security services, identifying a primary point of contact who is already familiar with the needs of the library, and the overall capacity of Hudson Services.  Hudson Services provided references for current clients, including Spire Energy, Alberici Constructors, The Desco Group, and the Muny Opera.
The Library Board approved of the lowest and best proposal from Hudson Services at an hourly cost of $61.00 and that the Board authorizes the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with Hudson Services to provide security services for the Library District. The Library District budgeted $587,852 for this expense in 2018. Annual costs for the service were unknown at the time the budget was prepared and the costs are higher than anticipated (Mulligan/Cunnane).
BRANCH WI-FI INTERNET SERVICES
Gib Van Cleve presented Administration’s recommendation for Branch Wi-Fi Internet Services.
Mr. Van Cleve reported that Library Administration is seeking approval of a 36-month Branch Wi-Fi Internet Services contract. The District is currently purchasing coax Internet services for the branch’s Wi-Fi needs on a month to month basis from Spectrum Enterprise (formerly Charter Business). A Request For Proposal (RFP) was issued for Branch Wi-Fi Internet Services to solicit competitive bids as required by E-Rate. Lashley Baer was involved in this process. On December 1, 2017, the RFP was posted on both the Library’s website and the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website. It was also advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Responses were due on January 10, 2018.
The Library’s Branch Wi-Fi Internet Services provide wireless Internet access at 19 branches. We see over sixty thousand unique publicly owned devices utilize the District’s wireless network per month.
The Library Board approved the lowest and best bid for Branch Wi-Fi Internet Services from Spectrum Enterprise at a cost of $123,113 for 36 months which will provide wireless Internet for public Wi-Fi enabled devices across the District, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 20% would reduce the three year total to $98,490. Branch Wi-Fi Internet services are included in the 2018 Telecommunications budget (Tai/Cunnane).
FIBER INTERNET SERVICES
Gib Van Cleve presented Administration’s recommendation for Fiber Internet Services.
Mr. Van Cleve reported that the Library Administration is seeking approval of a new three year Fiber Internet Services contract. The current contract with Spectrum Enterprise (formerly Charter Business) expires in June of 2018. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for Fiber Internet Services to solicit competitive bids as required by E-Rate. Lashley Baer was involved in this process. The RFP was posted on both the Library’s website and the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website. It was also advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
The Fiber Internet Service connection provides Internet access for public and staff PCs across the District. The RFP requested the option to relocate this Internet connection to our disaster recovery site at Daniel Boone.
The RFP was posted on December 1, 2017, and responses were due on January 10, 2018. We received three responses. Spectrum Enterprise’s proposal met both the Library’s technical and flexibility requirements. It provides a 100% increase in Internet speed with a 53% cost savings over the current contract and was the lowest bid.
The Library Board approved the lowest and best bid for Fiber Internet Services from Spectrum Enterprise at a cost of $43,200 for 36 months which will provide Internet connectivity for the District’s public and staff PCs, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 20% would reduce the 36 month total to $34,560. Internet services are included in the 2018 Telecommunications budget (Cunnane/Tai).
STRATEGIC PLANNING FACILITATION
Marie Conlin presented Administration’s recommendation for Strategic Planning Facilitation Services.
Ms. Conlin reported that the Library Administration requested the submission of qualifications from qualified consultants to provide Strategic Planning Services to assist in the data collection and development of St. Louis County Library’s strategic plan. The company selected will provide strategic planning services for five to six months. The selected company will provide the services outlined in the attached Scope of Services. The Library budgeted $50,000 for this professional service.
The RFQ was distributed on November 2, 2017 and it was posted on the Library’s website. Responses were due November 29, 2017. Four consultants responded. In accordance with Library policy, Kristen Sorth, Eric Button, Barbara Turkington, and Marie Conlin independently reviewed and ranked the proposals based on the responses given to the proposal requirements. Once ranked, fee envelopes were opened. The two top-ranked firms were selected for interviews.
The Library Administration determined Vector Communications is the best qualified firm with the lowest reasonable fee in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services. In accordance with Policy II, the following evaluation factors were used to select Vector Communications:
 (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required;
(b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized       services, within the time required;
(c) the past experience with references for comparable work;
(d) insurance required such as professional liability; and
(e) the reasonable fee for the type of work needed.
Vector was selected by the Library in 2013 to provide strategic planning services. The Library Administration was extremely pleased with their work. This combined with their experience, capacity and work with other public sector entities led to this recommendation.
(Ayes:  Cunnane, Tai, Kenyon, Mulligan).
(Nay:  Beckwith).  Motion passed.
The Library Board approved the lowest and best bid for Vector Communications at a cost of $47,500 for 10 focus groups, surveys, analysis and reports, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. (Cunnane/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Mulligan made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); and to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)). Mrs. Kenyon seconded.  All approved with a voice vote.
The meeting adjourned at 4:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
_________________________________                              ______________________
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                   Date