{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AV3QX566B01B",
  "date": "2018-10-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2018
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, October 15, 2018 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Edith Cunnane, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Marie Conlin, Deanna Davis, Gina Sheridan, Yoli Buie, Nicole Higginbotham, Alaina Culbertson, Anne Arthur, Lisa Huddle, Tiffany Davis, Barb Reale, Erin Magner, Donna Spaulding, Andrea Johnson, Carla Maxwell, Julie Cruise, Nicole Clawson, Paul Bayless, Lori Boschert, Keir Haug, Terra Baca, Jacob Eubanks, Rebecca Clarke, Laura Kasak, Matt Lakin, Maureen Willmann, Steve Hunter, Conrad Rader, Chasidy Allen, Anna Schurk, Kris Mooney, Annie Fuller, Meg Coyle, Anna Maria Gonzalez, Lauren Striebel, Emily Althoff, Mary Arnhart, Scott Holl, Stephanie Nordmann and Sandra Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 24, 2018 minutes (Cunnane/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in September, the Library District received $27,093 in Missouri State grant funds. The Library District received $14,000 for the Rhythm and Tunes videos produced by the Youth Services staff. In addition, the District received $5,596 for Parents as Teacher educator kits. Lastly, the Library received $7,557 for Summer Reading Club advertising.
The Library District incurred $6,322 in equipment expenses for September. Notable purchases include a DVD/CD disc repair machine at a cost of $3,945. This machine helps to extend the life of DVD’s and CD’s by resurfacing the disc to remove scratches. Also in September, the Library District incurred $6,406 in Library furniture expenses. Notable purchases were book carts and shelving end panels for Jamestown Bluffs and the Samuel C. Sachs branches at a cost of $4,287. Additional tables for the youth computers at the Daniel Boone branch were purchased for $1,998.
In September, the Library District made the second annual interest payment on the Certificates of Participation issued in April of 2013 and September of 2016. The payment amount totaled $1,996,955.
Total Construction in Progress for September 2018 was $2,817,884. The expenses included
payments for:
		Construction costs for Grand Glaze - $1,037,856
		Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $447,588
		Construction costs for Mid County - $611,751
		Construction costs for Thornhill - $244,944
		Construction Management services for Phase 2 buildings - $290,920
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $40,480
The Library Board approved the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Mulligan).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the dashboard report for October contains a variety of statistical information for the Library, and she shared the report with the Board. The report included information about circulation, visits, programming, and PC usage. With three branches closed for construction, circulation was down 5%.  This decrease may be attributed to the extension of DVD checkout periods from 7 to 14 days.  As for visits and programming, visits were up 3%. The most visited branch was HQ with a total visit count of 93,373. This is the highest monthly visit count on record ever, for both HQ and all of the branches. Program attendance increased 12%. This month, the report also includes a breakdown of the circulation and holds for musical instruments, Wi-Fi hotspots and games. There are 495 holds for musical instruments and 266 holds for hotspots. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3 and Sense of Community 2.2)
	The Library Foundation has awarded the Lewis & Clark Branch a $2,000 Alison Grant for "Game Changers," a new incentive program for children and teens ages 10-18 years. Library teens helped plan the program, naming it and providing ideas for how it will work. Positive behaviors like getting good grades, assisting library staff, completing volunteer hours, and attending select library programs will earn the teens tickets they can exchange for rewards. Rewards include key chains, art supplies, phone cases, earbuds, bike locks, and more. As an added incentive, teens who earn a certain number of tickets throughout the month will be eligible to attend a special end-of-the month celebration. To kick things off, Lewis & Clark teens are invited to an after-hours launch party on Friday, October 19 where they can sign up for Game Changers. The launch party will feature laser tag, a DJ, and pizza. (Plan: Sense of Community 2)
	Ms. Sorth recently learned about a new fellowship through one of the American Library Association's divisions called the Association for Library Services for Children (ALSC). The goal of the fellowship is to engage new generations of racially and ethnically diverse library professionals. Nominees are selected based on their demonstrated commitment to providing direct service to children, the potential for ALSC leadership and a demonstrated commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Administrators nominated Youth Services Specialist, Jocelyn Moore, from Jamestown Bluffs and were just notified that she was chosen for the fellowship. Only five ALSC fellowships were awarded. Fellowship recipients will receive funding for two-year ALSC and ALA memberships and one year of conference registrations and travel stipends for ALA Midwinter and ALA Annual. Fellowship recipients will also receive mentorship from members of the Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee within the ALSC Task Force.
	The Library has signed an agreement with Leadercast to host their Women 2018 event. During this event, nine exceptional women from all walks of life take the stage to share their insights, experiences and perspectives on how to be a leader.  The hosting agreement enables us to affordably bring this world-class leadership event to our patrons. Leadercast provides the programming and speakers and we select the date and time to use the recording for several adult programs that will be designed and presented in 2019. The Foundation is supporting this effort. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the Library currently has 10 students that have completed their Career Online High School (COHS) coursework. Several other students are getting close to finishing the program. The Library will host a graduation ceremony for the graduates on October 27 at 7:00 p.m. at HQ. Several months ago, Jim Bogart and Ms. Sorth met with the Director of the Foundation for St. Louis Community College (SLCC). In that meeting, they discussed the Career Online High School program and how SLCC could support our students. Those conversations have continued between the College and the Library’s Adult Programming Department. The Library was recently notified that the St. Louis Community College Foundation will provide the first round of graduates with a 3 credit hour scholarship certificate which is good for one year.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.1 and 3.3)
	As mentioned previously, Ms. Sorth was able to connect with the Chief Operating Officer of Mercy Hospital to discuss Born to Read. The Library staff recently met in person and was joined by administrators from both Mercy and the Library.  At that meeting, Mercy Hospital enthusiastically agreed to participate in Born to Read starting in 2019. Currently, the library only delivers Born to Read bags at Mercy pediatric clinics and not the hospital. Mercy delivers more babies than any other hospital in St. Louis. The addition of Mercy Hospital means that we go from delivering 750 bags a year through the clinics to delivering 8,800 a year! It will be great to reach all of the babies born in St. Louis County by having all of the hospitals participating in Born to Read. This does involve a lot of work and planning to support the increased numbers. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
	The Library will implement a new feature of our integrated library system that will allow for the auto renewal of materials that are checked out for patrons. Any items eligible for renewal will be renewed two days prior to the due date. Patrons will receive a notice indicating that the items have been renewed. If they have items that are not renewable, patrons will receive that notification as well. We are testing this on staff accounts for the next several weeks to work out the kinks before we implement it for patrons. This will be a huge benefit and convenience to patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	The Library is planning to offer six Coding 101 cycles in 2019. As mentioned previously, we have established a partnership with GlobalHack. They will provide instructors at no cost at branches who are located in school districts that qualify for free or reduced lunch.  Library employees will conduct the training at the other locations. Coding 101 will be held at Lewis & Clark, Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Natural Bridge (2 sessions), and Prairie Commons. Each cycle consists of eight weekly sessions.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.1)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	There were a number of great photos to show the Board from several programs and events in September and October including:  After School Meals and Chess at Weber Road, Author Dav Pilkey at HQ, Little Readers Festival at HQ, Author Deborah Harkness at HQ, Author Esi Udogyan at HQ, HHAC Screening at Florissant Valley, History and Genealogy’s 20th Anniversary at HQ and Table Top Games Kickoff Party at Grant’s View. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	In 2019, the Library will establish a cohort of non-MLS staff who will receive educational and on-the-job learning opportunities. The objective will be to develop staff that show great aptitude and interest and provide individuals with opportunities to develop professionally and to make greater contributions to the Library. Planning for the cohort is still in the early phases and the implementation will be included in the 2019 Library Budget. There will be an application and selection process used to determine who participates in the cohort. Part of the training will be conducted through online training and education for non-MLS staff. These classes will be paired with activities and learning opportunities at the Library. (Plan: Sense of Community 2)
	Ms. Sorth reported that work on the 2019 Library Budget is in progress. A draft will be presented to the Library Board at the November Board Meeting, and the final budget will be submitted for approval at the December Board Meeting. Later in this meeting, the Board will review the new Strategic Plan. That Plan will guide our budgeting process for the next four years.  Part of the budget discussion will include the number of employees needed for the new Meramec Valley Branch. The branch is going from a small 2,690 square feet location to a 21,000 square foot full service branch that includes meeting rooms and a discovery zone for children. Administration is also discussing the addition of Sunday hours at both Mid-County and Meramec Valley when they open to the public after construction is complete. (Plan: Sense of Community 1 and Create Gathering Spaces)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Administration is in preliminary discussions with Enterprise Fleet Management about converting our fleet of 31 vehicles from owned to leased. Some expected advantages of converting to a leased fleet include newer, image-enhancing vehicles on the street, a computerized fuel + maintenance tracking system, and lower overall fleet costs. Many school districts and other public sector entities lease their fleet of vehicles. Library Administration will keep the Board updated as our discussions continue.
	The inventory on the Mid-County collection is complete. We have used all of the branch closures as a time to inventory the collections that are in storage and update the Library’s catalog accordingly.
	Ms. Sorth was recently contacted by the City of Manchester regarding a storm water drainage issue from Grand Glaize to a neighboring subdivision. The City plans to fund and complete the work. The Library is planning to work with the City on this project.  Ms. Sorth will update the Board as more information becomes available.
Library Foundation
	The Library has been notified that we are the recipient of a $4,500 grant from Boeing for two Coding 101 classes in 2019.
	With the addition of over 8,000 babies from Mercy Hospital in Born to Read, Youth Services and the Foundation are working together on sponsorships and items included in the Born to Read bags. These include discussions with Delta Dental and the St. Louis Cardinals.
Author Events
	Cressida Cowell, author of “The Wizards of Once Twice Magic,” Monday, October 15, 2018, 6:30 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Elliot Ackerman, author of “Waiting for Eden,” Wednesday, October 17, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Lou Berney, author of ‘November Road,” Thursday, October 18, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. B. A. Shapiro, author of “The Collector’s Apprentice,” Thursday, October 25, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Brian Kilmeade - Ticketed Event, author of “Andrew Jackson and the Miracle of New Orleans: The Battle that Shaped America’s Destiny,” Friday, October 26, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Sarah Mlynowski, author of Whatever After Series, “Seeing Red,” Monday, October 29, 2018 6:30 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Joe Hagan, author of “Sticky Fingers:  The Life and Times of Jann Wenner and Rolling Stones Magazine,” Thursday, November 1, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Michael Beschloss, author of “Presidents of War,” Friday, November 2, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Sherri Duskey Rinker, author of “Construction Site on Christmas Night,” Saturday, November 3, 2018 4:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	C. Morgan Babst, author of “The Floating World,” Monday, November 5, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Nathaniel Philbrick, author of “In the Hurricane’s Eye:  The Genius of George Washington and the Victory at Yorktown,” Thursday, November 8, 2018 7:00 p.m. Headquarters.
	Doris Kearns Goodwin - Ticketed Event, author of “Leadership in Turbulent Times,” Saturday, November 10, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. The event will be an onstage interview with St. Louis Public Radio host Don Marsh.
	Jane Sherron de Hart, author of “Ruth Bader Ginsburg,” Monday, November 12, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Bob Spitz, author of “Reagan: An American Journey,” Tuesday, November 13, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Susan Orlean, author of “The Library Book,” Thursday, November 15, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
Board members requested to meet the Fellowship recipient Jocelyn Moore. Ms. Sorth said she would have her attend the November Board meeting.
Dr. Beckwith asked to receive number of employees and their title positions.
Dr. Beckwith mentioned an article he saw in the St. Louis Post Dispatch with Lewis & Clark Branch manager Gina Sheridan. Ms. Sheridan responded that she and her husband were building a home out of shipping containers in the Old North St. Louis neighborhood. The home faces the Gateway Arch.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter reported that there are three buildings under construction. Thornhill is on schedule to open in January of 2019. Mr. Hunter shared that the framing and drywall are complete, and there is a children’s garden.
Meramec Valley has stonework taking place on the outside structure, and framing is expected to start this week. The Mid-County parking garage is completed.
Mr. Hunter also reported that the work on Musick Road is almost complete. Patrons will soon be able to enter the building directly from Musick Road.
SNOW REMOVAL & LOT TREATMENT
Steve Hunter reported that on September 27, 2018, Library Administration issued an IFB for Snow Removal and Lot Treatment at seventeen Library locations. The IFB was directly emailed to four companies and posted on the SLCL website, in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and online at The St. Louis American. Additionally it was picked up by the online plan room Blue Book. Responses were due October 9, 2018. The IFB requested specific bids for five categories of precipitation. Two firms responded.
Follow-up questioning revealed that Loyet’s pricing for an ice-only event includes one-and-a-half passes of treatment while BSR’s includes three full passes. Accordingly, the price in the table shared with the Board was adjusted for quantities of service. The lowest price responder was different depending on the weather event.
Given the unpredictability of the type and frequency of weather events, and the closeness of the bids, the percentage of work performed by employees rather than contractors (70% for BSR, 20% for Loyet) and the multiple certifications and recognition by professional associations held by BSR led the selection team to choose BSR as having provided the lowest and best bid.
Snow removal services are as needed and payments are made only when services are rendered. This work is included in the approved 2018 Library budget for $75,000.
The Library Board approved the recommendation to select BSR Services Inc. to provide the service of Snow Removal and Lot Treatment to the Library District, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 3-year contract to that effect (Mulligan/Cunnane).
RULE OF 80
Kristen Sorth reported that in the Library’s current Pension Plan, employees may retire at age 65 once they have 5 years of credited service. Employees may retire early; however, retiring at an age earlier than 65 will result in a reduction in pension benefits because payments begins at a younger age and will be paid for a longer time.
The Pension Board has reviewed and approved a change to the Library’s Pension plan that will allow an employee to retire with full benefits (no reduction) when the employee’s years of service and age added together equal 80. The employee must be age 55 or older to take advantage of the Rule of 80.  Most public sector pension plans include a Rule of 80 in their plan.  It not only allows for employees to retire early with full benefits but it also helps employees and employers plan for retirements. Additionally, employers often see a reduction in salaries due to retirements.
An analysis regarding the Rule of 80 was shared with the Board.  This analysis was prepared by the Library’s Actuary, Milliman, and was presented to the Pension Board. According to the analysis, the funding percentage and the annual contribution will see a minimal impact from this addition to the Pension Plan.
The Pension Board has approved the addition of a Rule of 80 to the Pension Plan.  Following the required 45 days for posting the change, the Library Board will review the Pension Board’s recommendation for approval at the December Board Meeting.  Unless and until a Rule of 80 amendment is approved by the Library Board, a rule of 80 early retirement is not available under the Plan.
STRATEGIC PLAN
Marie Conlin, Library Planner, addressed the Board regarding the new Strategic Plan.
Since late 2017, the Library Administration has been working toward developing a new Strategic Plan for the District. That process included both employee and community engagement. The objective of this research was to learn how the District could best serve specific populations. The research included focus groups and online surveys from April through June of 2018.
The Library offered:
	Two staff and one management focus groups;
	Four adult patron focus groups;
	Two teen focus groups;
	A non-patron focus group;
	An online survey for staff members; and
	An online survey for patrons.
An overview of the 2019-2022 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan and infographic were shared with the Board.
The Library Board approved the 2019-2022 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan. This plan will be the foundation for operational plans for the next four years (Cunnane/Tai).
ADJOURNMENT
Mike Mulligan motioned to adjourn the meeting. Elena Kenyon seconded.  All voted with voice approval. The meeting adjourned at 4:33 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
__________________________________                                        ___________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                                     Date