{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "AV3QTJ669024",
  "date": "2018-11-19T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, November 19, 2018 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Edith Cunnane, Member
Dr. Beckwith announced that Dr. Chingling Tai, was excused due to scheduled travel.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Kamil Koscik, Enterprise Fleet Mgmt.; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Rebecca Clarke, Nicole Higginbotham, Natalia Catlett, Tracy Fletcher, Patricia Peiffer, Ross Brand, Kat Van Arsdale, Emily Althoff, Stephanie Nordmann, Anna Schurk, Mary Arnhart, Anne Bradley, Stacy Berger, Nicole Clawson, Annie Fuller, Katie Keeven, Matt Lakin, Jennifer Alexander, Scott Hole, Andrea Johnson, Sri Upadhya, Cindy Schultz, Deanna Davis, Jocelyn Moore, Barb Reale, Rachel Nowell, Paul Bayless, Andrew Freshwater, Sara Wood, Lindsey Piech, Carla Maxwell, Will LaChance, Anna Maria Gonzalez, Amy Hanaway, Erin Magner, Julie Cruise, Conrad Rader, Sarah Brown, Marie Conlin, Kelli Reeves and Sandra Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the October 15, 2018 minutes (Cunnane/Mulligan).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that, in October, the Library District received $163,238 from the State of Missouri’s distribution of State Aid to libraries. This was the first of two payments expected for the State of Missouri’s 2019 fiscal year. The next payment is expected in March 2019.
Also in October, the District received $107,500 in support from the Library’s Foundation. The transfer of funds to the Library District included the following: $52,500 for the Thornhill Children’s Garden, $40,000 for the Florissant Valley Discovery Zone, and $10,000 for Summer Reading Club
The Library District made a payment of $23,535 for the 2019 Ford Truck purchased from Republic Ford. This purchase was approved by the Board at the March 2018 meeting and was included in the 2018 budget. The Library District also purchased 30 laptops at a cost of $39,600. The laptops replaced the outdated laptops for Youth Service Specialists across the District. This purchase was made off of a cooperative contract and was included in the 2018 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for October 2018 was $3,447,306. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Thornhill - $1,301,948
		Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $1,128,254
		Construction costs for Grand Glaze - $494,283
		Construction costs for Mid County - $339,991
		Construction Management services for Phase 2 buildings - $106,473
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $33,550
The Library Board approved the November 2018 Treasurer's Report, subject to audit (Mulligan/Kenyon).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for November contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, programming and PC usage. Ms. Sorth shared the report with the Board. With three branches closed for construction, circulation was down 4%. This decrease may be attributed to the extension of DVD checkout periods from 7 to 14 days. Program attendance increased 18% over 2017. Lewis & Clark had the highest computer usage at 10,821 sessions. This month, the report contains a special section on eMedia circulation. All of the formats are listed on the Dashboard. eBooks are the most popular eMedia format with a circulation of nearly a million. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3 and Sense of Community 2.2)
	Ms. Sorth introduced Youth Services Specialist, Jocelyn Moore from Jamestown Bluffs, who was one of only five chosen for a new fellowship from the American Library Association. The goal of the fellowship is to engage new generations of racially and ethnically diverse library professionals. Nominees are selected based on their demonstrated commitment to providing direct service to children, the potential for leadership and a demonstrated commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Ms. Moore was asked to stand and received applause for her accomplishment. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The addition of Mercy Hospital to the Born to Read program means that the Library goes from delivering 750 bags a year through the clinics to delivering 8,800 a year! The Youth Services Department has been working with Mercy on the Born to Read delivery schedule. Born to Read bags will be distributed to new moms starting on January 1. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
	The Library held its first Local Poetry Night for teens and adults on October 16 at HQ. There were 44 submissions and 30 poets that performed that evening. Adults gave the majority of the poetry readings. 74 people attended with a variety of ages in the audience. The Library plans to make this an annual program. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1.2 and Sense of Community 2.3)
	The Career Online High School graduation took place on October 27 at HQ and it was fabulous. Friends and family of the graduates were there to witness the pomp and circumstance. The graduates were very surprised and thankful for the three-credit hour scholarship to St. Louis Community College. The Library hosted a fun graduation party after the ceremony to celebrate the accomplishments of the ten graduates. Staff are so proud and happy for them. Several donors, Library Foundation Board Members and the State Librarian were able to attend the graduation ceremony. Adult Literacy Coordinator, Ricqui Brooks and Ms. Sorth had a meeting the week after the graduation ceremony with the State Library to talk about the program. There are ongoing discussions about offering the program statewide through the State Library and the Library has been asked to consult on the process. Ms. Sorth stated that she cannot begin to express her appreciation for Ricqui’s work on the program and the graduation ceremony. Ricqui Brooks has been a guiding force for these students. (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.1 and 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Winter Reading Club starts on December 1 and runs through February 28. The Library has contacted all of the school districts to encourage participation.  The Club has been revamped to include an online option that will work the same way as the Summer Reading Club. Additionally, several new raffle prizes have been selected to increase and broaden the appeal. The Kids Club will have Cozmo Robots and the Teen and Adult Clubs will feature several products from Yeti and Beats by Dre as raffle prizes. (Plan: Increase Literacy 1.3)
	The Spotlight on Literacy grant from the Missouri State Library for $7,910 is being used to create and distribute early literacy kits to Parents as Teachers Educators (PAT) in the school districts of Jennings, Riverview Gardens, Hancock Place, Bayless, and Affton. In addition to the kits, PAT Educators will give each family served a free book and extension activities to use as a literacy resource for in-home libraries. (Plan: Increase Literacy 2.1)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	There were a number of great photos shown to the Board from several programs and events in October and November including: Bookmobile thank you display, the author event and Friends reception with Ellie Kemper at HQ, Toddler Parachute Play at Weber Road, Book Buddies at Cliff Cave, Savvy Senior Expo at HQ, Halloween Parade at HQ, author Michael Beschloss at HQ, After School Meals at Natural Bridge, and author Doris Kearns Goodwin at HQ.  (Plan: Increase Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Last week, Ms. Sorth presented at the Library Marketing and Communications Conference that was held in St. Louis this year. Ms. Sorth participated in a panel discussion about tax initiatives with two other library directors. In addition, Jennifer McBride, Sunny Schaefer, Executive Director of Operation Food Search, and Ms. Sorth gave a presentation on community partnerships and discussed our partnership with Operation Food Search. She also recently participated in a webcast by STL Nonprofit News. Ms. Sorth’s part of the program was about foundations and public sector entities.  In addition, Focus St. Louis has a new program for young professionals and she was their first presenter. Her topic was Building Healthy Culture both inside an organization and with the community. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	On November 13, the Pension Board attended the required yearly continuing education for Pension Board Trustees. The all-day seminar took place at Washington University and was conducted by attorneys from Husch Blackwell.
	Several administrators from the Evansville Vanderburgh Public Library in Indiana will visit SLCL on November 28. They are interested in the Library’s Your Library Renewed projects.  Eric Button has recently talked with them about our construction projects.  They will meet with various administrators and tour several branches while they are in St. Louis. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the Donell J. Gaertner Scholarship was developed several years ago with funds donated by former St. Louis County Library Director, Don Gaertner. The scholarship was developed to assist Library employees in pursuing a Master’s Degree in Library Science.  Six Library employees have received scholarships since 2012. This is the last year for the scholarship.  Everlyne Amailuk from the Thornhill Branch is the final recipient.
	Matt Lakin, Manager of Training, and Staff Trainer, Libby Dickinson, presented at the Poplar Bluff Municipal Library on November 12 at their In Service Day training. The focus of the training was on customer service and working with the public. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	As reported at the October Board Meeting, the Pension Board reviewed and approved a change to the Library’s Pension plan that will allow an employee to retire with full benefits (no reduction) when the employee’s years of service and age added together equal 80. Per State Statute, the Library’s actuary, Milliman, prepared an actuarial cost statement and submitted this statement to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER is required to notify the public on all Pension Plans who have substantial changes. They have posted the Library’s change on their website.  Final review and approval will be on the December Library Board meeting agenda.
	As mentioned previously, the new Meramec Valley Branch is significantly larger and will be much busier when it opens. In preparation, Meramec Valley employees will be working at Grant’s View and Daniel Boone for a period of 4-6 weeks in November-early December and again in January-early February. This will allow the employees to get the feel of a busy and full service branch before Meramec Valley opens to the public in the spring of 2019. When it opens, the new Meramec Valley will have many amenities that it does not currently have including a large collection of materials for checkout, expanded programs and services, a Discovery Zone for children, a teen space, and public meeting rooms and study rooms. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth shared that Administration is exploring options for better utilizing the Children's Activity Room at the Lewis & Clark Branch. Plans are being developed to add additional features into the space that will make it more inviting for children. The space, which is typically locked to the public, will be opened the majority of times when it is not being used for a program at the branch. (Plan: Create Gathering Spaces 1.1)
Library Foundation
	The St. Louis Press Club is the presenting sponsor for the Buzz Westfall Author Series.  This is a multi-year sponsorship at $5,000 each year.
	The Foundation is currently in the final phases of its annual appeal. To date, they have received 145 responses for a total of $17,344.
	In 2019, the Foundation will be upgrading their website. A committee of Foundation Board members and Library employees will be involved in that process.
	This has been a very successful year for the Foundation.  As a result, they have a surplus in the 2018 Foundation budget that will be used to support various programs and services for the Library.  These include:
		A second Simple Scan at Florissant Valley
		Additional musical instruments (48 in total) for circulation including portable keyboards, xylophones, bass guitars, electric guitars, cajons and djembes.
		Teen area enhancements at several branches.
		Additional carts and baskets for patrons to use at the branches and HQ.
		Lego community figures for the activity tables at the branches.
		Supplemental items for the Grant’s View children’s space
		One additional Google Expeditions kit and several Oculus Rift sets.
Author Events
	H. W. Brands, author of Heirs of the Founders, Tuesday, November 27, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
· Louise Penny - Ticketed Event, author of Kingdom of the Blind, Saturday, December 1, 2018 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
· Antony Beevor, author of The Battle of Arnhem, The Deadliest Airborne Operation of World War II, Monday, December 3, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
· Andrew Delbanco, author of The War before the War, Fugitive Slaves and the Struggle for America’s Soul from the Revolution to the Civil War, Wednesday, December 5, 2018, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter reported on the construction progress.  He showed pictures of all of the branches under construction and also showed a timeline. Meramec Valley is the most significant change. The branch is going from 2,790 square feet to 20,870 square feet of space. RFQ for Eureka is out to bid right now, and design of the branch should begin in March 2019.
2019 BUDGET
Kris Mooney gave an informational presentation on the 2018 Library Budget.
Mr. Mooney shared that the budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of the following individuals: Kristen Sorth – Director; Eric Button – Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington - Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS; Kris Mooney –Assistant Director, Administration;
Steve Hunter – Assistant Director, Construction & Operations.
The 2019 Budget document was shared with the Board.  The Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2019 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
The Library Board of Trustees set the 2018 tax rates at $ 0.234 for Residential assessments, $
0.217 for Agricultural assessments, $ 0.259 for Commercial assessments and $ 0.225 for
Personal Property assessments. These rates will provide 96% of the cash income to operate in
2019. The Executive Summary on page 2 and the Revenue and Expenses on page 4 - 7 are a synopsis of the proposed 2019 Cash Budget. The 2019 budget has a budgeted surplus of $1.0 million.
The 2019 Budget is an informational item for this month in order to give the Library Board of Trustees time to review the document and ask questions.  The Budget Committee would like to receive the Board’s questions by December 10 so we may respond accordingly before the December Library Board Meeting. The Library Board of Trustees will vote on the 2019 Library Budget at the December Meeting.  That vote will allow the Library to operate in 2019.
ENTERPRISE FLEET MANAGEMENT
Steve Hunter presented Administration’s recommendation for the conversion of the Library District’s fleet of vehicles from owned to leased.
The Library owns a fleet of thirty-one vehicles ranging from one to fifteen years old. The fleet includes bookmobiles and other outreach vehicles, work trucks for Building Systems, box trucks for transporting collection items, and vans for staff to move equipment & materials around the system. We typically replace one to three vehicles each year.
Administration has had discussions with Enterprise Fleet Management regarding the conversion of the fleet from ‘owned’ to ‘leased’. Enterprise Fleet Management has a governmental division which currently manages fleets for the St. Louis Board of Education, the Ladue School District, the St. Charles School District, the University of Missouri System, and the Public Libraries of both Sacramento and Cleveland, among others.
There are many benefits available to the Library by converting to a leased fleet. Overall costs will be lower, overhead will be reduced, and the fleet will be younger – vehicles will have the latest safety equipment, require less maintenance, and have better fuel mileage. A newer fleet also means a better marketing presence on the street.
Administration is comfortable with converting the fleet to one that is leased rather than owned and wishes to pursue this opportunity.
Enterprise Fleet Management is available through negotiated government contracts. Therefore this is defined as a cooperative purchase in the Library’s Policy I Procurement Procedures. As a result, this does not require a competitive bid process. However, Administration is requesting the Board approve the overall direction of the program.
The Library Board approved the conversion of the Library District’s fleet of vehicles from owned to leased and that it authorize the Director to negotiate and enter into a contract to that effect with Enterprise Fleet Management (Mulligan/Cunnane).
COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Eric Button presented Administration’s recommendation for revisions to the Collection Development Policy.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Collection Development Policy.  Since the policy was last reviewed by the Board in October 2015, a few changes to the Library’s collections and personnel required updates to the policy. No substantial changes are recommended that would impact the philosophy or general collection development practices outlined in the policy.  A description of the main changes is included below, and a clean version and a version with changes tracked were shared with the Board.
	Statements were added to acknowledge the diversity of the community and the corresponding diversity of the library’s collection.
	The responsibility for handling Materials Reconsideration Forms was reassigned to the Deputy Director.
	The statement addressing Electronic Resources was completely revamped to more accurately convey the nature of collection development and access to materials in these formats.
	Several statements were adjusted in the Government Documents section to accurately reflect the library’s current status as a digital-only depository.
The Library Board approved of the revisions to the Collection Development Policy (Cunnane/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
The motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)) was made by Mrs. Cunnane and Michael Mulligan seconded. All voted unanimously with voice approval.
Meeting adjourned at 4:43 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
_________________________________                              ______________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                                     Date