{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "B8HRB265915A",
  "date": "2019-09-23T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, September 23, 2019. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Edith Cunnane, Member via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; and Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Annie Fuller, Andrew Freshwater, Sarah Wood, Heather Neill, Ross Brand, Jackie Hamilton, Paul Bayless, Matt Lakin, Emily Althoff, Jacob Eubanks, Kathy Muller, Conrad Rader, Michelle Hawkins, Katie Keeven, Anne Arthur, Allison Wisniewski, Julie Cruise, Will LaChance, Barb Reale, Anna Schurk, Deanna Davis, Sarah Brown, Chasidy Allen, Marie Conlin, Stephanie Nordmann, Carla Maxwell, Tiffany Davis, Chris Goodman, Kat Van Arsdale,  Tracy Fletcher, Alaina Culbertson, Mary Arnhart, Lauren Striebel, Skylar Stanley, Kim Ford, Cheri Remington, Kelli Reeves, Lindsay Piech, Amy Hanaway, Aaron Loste, Scott Holl, Andrea Johnson, Jennifer Gibson, Natalia Catlett, Donna Spaulding and Sandra Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the August 19, 2019 minutes (Mulligan/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kristen Sorth reported that, in August, the Library District received $12,365 in proceeds from the sale of two Library vehicles by Enterprise Fleet Management (EFM). At the November 2018 Board meeting, the Library Board approved shifting from Library owned vehicles to leased vehicles from EFM. As the Library District converts current vehicles to leased vehicles, EFM will sell the vehicle and give the proceeds to the Library District minus a small commission.
The Library District paid H&H Health Associates $48,440 for the Wellness Program. The payment was for health screenings available to full time employees. These costs were included in the 2019 budget. Also, in August, Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) tags were purchased for $18,273 from Bayscan Technologies. These supplies are replenished semi-annually and are placed on library materials for inventory and anti-theft purposes. Additionally, the Library District paid Arcturis $23,134 for architect fees for the new Eureka Hills Branch.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for August 2019 was $1,704,811. The expenses included payments for:
	Construction costs for Mid-County - $810,723
	Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $106,637
	Construction costs for Thornhill - $89,830
	Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $53,306
The Library Board approved the August Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Cunnane/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Library Director Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth stated that the Dashboard Report for September contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, programming and PC usage. Ms. Sorth shared the report with the Board. With one branch closed for construction, circulation was up 16%.  Visits, PC usage, and program attendance all increased in August. This month the Dashboard also contains information about circulation for special materials such as puzzles, musical instruments and telescopes. The top titles by circulation are also listed.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Library partnered with the Confucius Institute at Webster University to host an art exhibition featuring traditional Chinese ink paintings by internationally renowned artist Deng Bai Yuejin. The exhibition, hosted at Mid-County, ran from September 6-9. It featured an appearance by the artist on September 7 during the St. Louis Art Fair. The program included a talk by the exhibition curator, painting demonstrations, and instruction offered by the artist to more than 50 patrons. Deng Bai Yuejin made a generous gift of a framed piece of art to be displayed at the Mid-County Branch. Slides of the event were shown, (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4)
	The Reference Department recently met with Legal Services of Eastern Missouri to discuss a partnership that would include informational sessions at several branches and a legal clinic at the same branches the following month. The partnership would begin in 2020 and will be offered at Florissant Valley and Rock Road branches. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library will have comfort kits available at every branch for patrons that are experiencing homelessness or who are in transition. Eric Button learned of a similar program by St. Charles City-County Library and this prompted the program.  Helping Hand Me Downs, a local non-profit, is partnering with the Library to provide these kits, which will include a toothbrush and toothpaste, soap, deodorant, shampoo and a blanket. The Library also have kits for children and those will include the same items and a stuffed animal. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.2)
	The new partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank has been very successful. Two branches, Florissant Valley and Lewis & Clark, are serving as emergency distribution sites for diapers. Families can pick up a one-time supply of 50 diapers along with information about using diaper changing times as bonding and language development time at those branches. To date, the Library has distributed 338 packs of diapers which equates to 16,900 diapers. We had a great kickoff event with St. Louis County Executive, Sam Page. In addition, the Library is hosting a diaper drive at all 20 branches this month.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library created a new pilot program that will allow students at Ritenour High School to borrow Wi-Fi hotspots for the 2019-20 school year. The program is made possible by a $35,000 gift from Emerson. A distribution event took place at Ritenour High School on September 5 at 2:00 p.m. Representatives from Ritenour School District and the Library gathered to issue hotspots to students.  Wi-Fi hotspots will allow Ritenour High School students to access resources on the internet at any time to complete school assignments, including information from the Library’s subscription databases and other electronic resources available through the SLCL website.  (Plan: Maximize Access 1.2)
	The Library began offering a limited edition St. Louis Cardinals Library Card in September for National Library Card sign up month. Mid-County hosted a kickoff event that was attended by Fredbird. The Cardinals were also at the branch to give out free tickets to upcoming Cardinal games. The library cards are being promoted on KMOX.  To date, 2,051 Cardinal library cards have been distributed. Of those, 952 have been for new patrons. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Nicole Clawson and Emily McIlvoy from Youth Services and Eric Button presented at the Blueprint4Summer Camp Summit. Their program entitled, “What Can the Library Do for You:  Resources and Services to Support Summer Camps,” discussed the Library’s Hip Hop Architecture Camp as well as programs and resources offered by the Library.  The Clark-Fox Foundation created the easy-to-use Blueprint4Summer mobile app, which connects St. Louis area kids to summer learning opportunities. Library programs are included in the app each summer. This year, she said the Library was the second most searched organization. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	The BJC Health screening van will visit Lewis & Clark on October 8 and 9. These visits were facilitated by St. Louis County’s Office of Community Empowerment and Diversity. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Reference Department piloted a very successful program for entrepreneurs. The Etsy Craft Entrepreneurship program was sponsored by the Foundation. The Library received more than 74 applications and accepted 16 women to participate. Local entrepreneur, Danielle Favreau was the instructor. During the program, students learned how to set up their store, create listings, choose price points and create policies. They also learned about search engine optimization and how to successfully promote their store. Manager of Reference, Jennifer Gibson, will discuss the program in more detail at the October Board Meeting. The Library plans to offer two more sessions in 2020. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.2)
	The Library is expanding the Recycled Reads partnership with St. Louis County. Ms. Sorth shared that a patron on Twitter recently mentioned a desire for reading material during jury duty. As a result, we will be expanding to the St. Louis County Courts building in Clayton. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.2)
	The Summer Reading Club ended on August 3. This year, 43,459 individuals participated in the program for children, teens, and adults. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	The first meeting of St. Louis County’s Complete Count Committee took place on September 18. Ms. Sorth presented at the meeting and outlined the Library’s plans for the 2020 Census. This includes hosting 34 census hiring events at branches, conducting training for managers and employees, and presenting informational sessions for the public. In addition, the Library has preliminary plans for additional engagement and awareness activities. Ms. Sorth will keep the Board updated on these as they are further developed. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Ms. Sorth showed a number of great photos to the Board from several programs and events in August and September, including: Family Camp-Out at Grand Glaize, author Ben Westoff at HQ, Walk and Talk at Lewis & Clark, and Purr-palooza at Grant’s View. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	The Jive phone conversion project is underway. Weekly calls with Jive are working through the details of the effort. The goal is to match the configuration of our current Shoretel system as closely as possible to simplify the transition process for staff. The phones have been delivered and training for ITS is in progress. A go-live date has been set for September 25. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1)
	The History & Genealogy Department selected twelve employees for the Family History Ambassador Program. These employees will assist patrons with beginning genealogical research and act as point persons at their branches for the History & Genealogy Department. The following individuals were selected:
		Robert (C.J.) Hall - HQ
		Brianna Hanks – Florissant Valley
		Sarah Heend – Mid-County
		Michelle Lahiri - Sachs
		Stacy Park - Thornhill
		K.J. Meyer – Eureka Hills
		Julie Reinke – Grant’s View
		Mary Grace – Grand Glaize
		Katie Molinaro – Indian Trails
		Yecenia Arango – Daniel Boone
		Lisa Watson – Natural Bridge
		Kirsten Benson – Cliff Cave
(Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	Flu Shots for employees have been scheduled for September 26 and 27. The Visiting Nurse Association will administer the shots this year.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Mid-County Branch opened to the public on September 4, 2019 at 9:00 a.m. immediately following a ribbon cutting. She said this is the 18th branch to open since the Library began the construction phase of Your Library Renewed four years ago. The opening of Mid-County completes Phase 2! The employees worked very hard to get the branch ready to open. Branch employees, ITS, Building Systems and others did a fantastic job.  2,788 people visited on opening day and were thrilled with the new branch. Since the opening, Mid-County has checked out 18,835 items and created 356 new patron cards. In addition, 15,748 people have visited the branch. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Frontenac Planning and Zoning Commission unanimously approved the Library’s submission for a boundary adjustment for the land on Spoede Road.  The consolidated plan has been filed with St. Louis County. In addition, the Frontenac Architectural Review Board unanimously approved the Tree Preservation Plan and the Retaining Wall plan. A demolition permit was issued by the City and all four homes have been removed.   MSD gave final approval for the site plan. MODOT has provided a letter acknowledging the need for a traffic signal at South Outer 40. The Library’s engineers are working on the design. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	The Library was recently notified of the following grant awards:
		$5,000 from Blues for Kids for Born to Read
		$30,000 from CITI for Chess, Coding, and Digital Programming at several North County branches
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	Shannon Hale and LeUyen Pham, author and graphic designer for “Best Friends,” Tuesday, September 17, 2019, 6:30 p.m., Headquarters.  Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	SOLD OUT: Ticketed Event – Jodi Picoult, author of “A Spark of Light,” Wednesday, September 25, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.  *The Library will close early, at 5:00 p.m., for this event.
	Erin Entrada Kelly, author of “Lalani of the Distant Sea,” Thursday, September 26, 2019, 6:30 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Candace Bushnell, author of “Is There Still Sex in the City,” Friday, September 27, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Dr. Marty Makary, author of “The Price We Pay,” Wednesday, October 2, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Stephanie Dray, Eliza Knight and Sophie Perinot, authors of “Ribbons of Scarlet,” Thursday, October 3, 2019, 7:00 p.m. Headquarters, Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Craig Johnson, author of “Land of Wolves,” Friday, October 4, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Richard Russo, author of “Chances Are,” Monday, October 7, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters, Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Liz Phair, author of "Horror Stories: A Memoir," October 9, 7 p.m., Headquarters. *The Library will close early, at 5:00 p.m., for this event.
	Matt McCarthy, author of “Superbugs: the Race to Stop an Epidemic,” Thursday, October 10, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Brock Clarke, author of “Who are You Calvin Bledsoe?” Monday, October 14, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Ticketed Event - Rachael Ray, author of “Rachael Ray – 50.” Wednesday, October 16, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. *The Library will close early, at 5:00 p.m., for this event.
	Kwame Mbalia, author of “Tristan Strong Punches a Hole in the Sky,” Monday, October 21, 2019, 6:30 p.m., Florissant Valley Branch. Doors open at 6:00 p.m. Books for signing will be available for purchase from Barnes & Noble.
Ms. Sorth thanked Dr. Tai for coordinating an art gift from the Chinese artist Deng Bai Yuejin. It is now displayed at Mid County.
Edith Cunnane asked Ms. Sorth why the Library was getting a new telephone system. Ms. Sorth replied that the old system is no longer in business.
Dr. Beckwith said that he first questioned the library’s decision to get into diapers until he heard Jess Adams speak. He concluded that this is a worthwhile adventure and said he appreciates Ms. Sorth for involving us.
Kristen Sorth also explained her decision to work toward getting books into the prison system. Ms. Sorth received a letter from Mr. Bobby Bostick who went to prison when he was 16. The Library wants to serve those incarcerated and recently released. Reporter Tony Messenger wrote this article yesterday in the Sunday Post-Dispatch. Dr. Beckwith said he appreciated what she was doing for the prison system.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter gave an update on the construction projects. Mr. Hunter shared that it is the first time in five years that all branches are open. He shared more information about the History and Genealogy Library and Administration Building. We are putting in more than 250 trees. The retaining wall permit is approved, but not processed. Furthermore, the Musick and Gravois Road project is complete.
TAX RATES
Kristen Sorth presented the tax rate information. Library Administration has reviewed the 2018 post Board of Equalization (BOE) property value assessments. Property values have increased over prior year in total by .4%. A breakdown of the assessments by category is as follows:
The Board is reminded that the 2018 tax revenue along with the surtax on commercial property will provide approximately 97% of the cash income needed to operate in 2019. According to State Statute, the Board must set the 2018 tax rates by October 1, 2018.  Proposed tax rates, preliminary tax rates presented at the tax hearing in August, 2018, and prior year tax rates are as follows:
The above proposed tax rates are set at the ceiling and would provide approximately $51,400,000 in tax revenue for 2019.
The Library Board approved the Administration recommendation that the Board approve the Resolution which states the above proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property are assessed as the 2018 tax rates. If, after validation by the Missouri State Auditor, the tax rate ceiling allowed for any or all subclasses is less than or greater than the approved rate(s) the Director is hereby authorized to set the final rate (s) for the Library as validated by the State of Missouri Auditor. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our customers and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 and September 2016 (Kenyon/Tai).
2019 BUDGET REVISION
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for the 2019 Budget Revision.
The Budget Committee members are as follows:
Kristen Sorth               Director
Eric Button                 Deputy Director
Barbara Turkington     Assistant Director, Advancement
Gib Van Cleve                        Assistant Director, ITS
Steve Hunter               Assistant Director, Operations
Kris Mooney               Assistant Director, Administration
The committee has reviewed the 2019 Budget Revision. Revenue will increase by approximately $1.6 million. Expenditures will increase by approximately $65,000. Account changes are explained within the Budget Revision narrative and summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures that were shared with the Board.
The Library Board approved the Budget Committee’s recommendation for approval of the 2019 revised budget (Mulligan/Tai).
MERIT RAISES
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for Merit Raises.
The 2020 Library Budget will include a structure adjustment and merit raises for Library employees.  We have been working with Lockton Companies, the Library’s Human Resources Consultant, on this recommendation.   The implementation of the following two salary adjustments will result in a salary increase for Library employees.  Each type of salary adjustment and a description of the recipients are defined below.
Structure Adjustment
There is a salary structure in place for the Library’s seventeen pay grades.  Each pay grade contains a minimum, midpoint and maximum salary.  Each title is assigned to a pay grade.  Lockton is recommending an updated structure for 2020.  The comparison between the 2019 and 2020 structure is illustrated on the attachment.  The recommended increase to the structure adjustment averages out to be 2%.   The structure adjustment only affects employees that are new to the Library or new to their position.  These individuals are not eligible for a merit raise.  Lockton conducted an analysis and identified 62 employees that will receive a structure adjustment.  The structure adjustment costs $25,045.
Merit Raises
The Library uses a performance management system where individual raises are tied directly to the level of performance for each employee.  Through this process, managers can make real distinctions between levels of performance and reward employees accordingly.  For 2020, we are recommending the following:
0 – 3% merit raise range
0 - 2.5% merit raise range for cabinet level positions
Merit at these ranges cost $481,408.
Only employees that have worked for the Library for one year or more are eligible for merit raises.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the 2020 salary adjustments based on the analysis conducted by Lockton.  These adjustments will cost $506,453 for a 0 – 3% merit raise range with a 2.34% average.  Salary adjustments approved last year cost $592,868 (Mulligan/Tai).
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Mary Arnhart presented the Administration’s recommendation to appoint a library employee to the Grievance Committee.
According to the Personnel Manual, the Library Board appoints two employees to the Grievance Committee for four-year terms. One employee is appointed in even numbered years and the other in odd numbered years. Terms of the Grievance Committee shall commence on October 1.
There is currently a vacant position on the committee that was held by Janet Rissmann who retired this past April. This term expires on September 30, 2019.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to appoint Joan Hammann from Cliff Cave Branch to serve a four-year term (Cunnane/Kenyon).
EASEMENT AT DANIEL BOONE
Steve Hunter presented the Adminstration’s recommendation for Easement at Daniel Boone.
The City of Ellisville is proposing roadwork near the Daniel Boone Branch. They are planning to widen Clarkson Pines Lane, on the south side of the branch, to facilitate a right turn lane onto Clarkson Road. The finished work will be within the existing road right-of-way.
This project includes ADA upgrades to adjoining sidewalks. Ellisville is requesting two easements for the work: a temporary easement allowing workers to be able to complete the work by entering our property, and a small permanent easement for a larger sidewalk ramp on the southeast corner of the property. The total size of the permanent easement is 114 square feet.
This project will benefit our patrons by easing traffic congestion for those exiting the library from the south parking lot. The proposed permanent easement is in an area that is currently lawn and not used for pedestrians or traffic.
Administration has studied Ellisville’s request and is in agreement with it.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to authorize the Director to execute the temporary and permanent Easement Agreements with Ellisville related to proposed road and sidewalk enhancements at Clarkson Pines Lane (Mulligan/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
Elena Kenyon made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).  Motion was seconded by Chingling Tai.
Aye: Edith Cunnane, Chingling Tai, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith, Michael Mulligan.
Board meeting adjourned at 4:32 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
______________________________                                    ________________
Chingling Tai, Secretary                                                         Date