{
  "name": "Special Library Board Meeting, 4 p.m., 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd, St. Louis, MO 63131",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "BDHLXD58AB31",
  "date": "2019-06-27T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, June 27, 2019 at 4:00 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Edith Cunnane present via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director, Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Scott, Kolath, Landmark, Tom Smith, Special Solutions, and Brian Malone, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Linda Legg, Karen Goode, Amy Gibbons, Jackie Hamilton, Lindsey Piech, Ilene Murray, and Dawn Ruhbeck, Liz Ruhbeck, Chris Goodman, David Hatfield, Rachel Nowell, Paul Abrams, Connie Berskhardt, Bob Goode, Linda Landegman, Dan Millman, Mary Arnhart, Emily Althoff, Erin Magner, Viki Faguyal, Jamie Griesedieck, Chasidy Allen, Emuly Arneson, Kat VanArsdale, Nora Marina, Amy Hanaway, Carrie Robb, Richard Kniep, Walter Guest, Jennifer Gibson, Kelli Reeves, Crystal Harris, Darryl Wallace, Christian Tompres, Amy Greirl, Jack Hilton, Kalin Preston, Pat Kilker and Sandra Williams.
The meeting was called to order by Dr. Lynn Beckwith. After roll call, Dr. Beckwith explained to the audience that the Board would adjourn for a brief executive session and reopen to the public directly afterward.
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Michael Mulligan made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters and confidential communications with attorneys (Section 610.021(1). Elena Kenyon seconded. Aye: Edith Cunnane, Chingling Tai, Elena G Kenyon, Lynn Beckwith, Michael Mulligan. The meeting adjourned.
THE MEETING REOPENED AFTER A BRIEF CLOSED SESSION.
Dr. Beckwith asked for a motion to amend the agenda to allow patron comments. Mike Mulligan made the motion. Elena Kenyon seconded. It was unanimous in approval. Dr. Beckwith explained to the audience that 30 minutes was allowed for all comments. Each speaker has three minutes. He also said that no answers or comments would be given at the meeting but that patrons asking questions would receive a response by letter in the near future.
The following is an excerpt of the patrons that spoke before the Board.
Ilene Murray, publications director for the St. Louis Genealogical Society, addressed the Board and said “…We just wanted to show our support for the Board of Directors and the Library in terms of the new history and genealogical library that is upcoming. We are the largest genealogical library in the country. As such we represent almost 1800 plus members, many of whom use the facility here. And we totally appreciate having such a fine facility and really look forward to having a free standing library that finally has enough room for us to work, it has modern computers, and it has a collection that is accessible. Thank you.”
 Bob Goode, Information Systems Director for the St. Louis Genealogical Society said, “…I’ll embellish and add on to what Ilene had to say. We’re an all-volunteer society which makes us rather unique. I cannot tell you the enthusiasm that occurred within the society over the fact that we would have an additional building that was going to house History and Genealogy. As you well know we have the St. Louis Genealogical Society upstairs and we also have the National Genealogical Society upstairs that was moved from Virginia to here. In addition to that we have the Mary Berthold and the Julius Hunter collection. So we have three very reputable collections of books and materials.”
 Viki Fagyal, Treasurer of the St. Louis Genealogical Society said, “I too am with the St. Louis Genealogical Society. I’m the treasurer. I want to reiterate what the other members of the Board have spoken about. We’ve partnered with the St. Louis County Library now for 21 years… It needs to continue to be able to be nurtured and grow and be treated with the respect that it needs to be treated with. There are those of us who adore books and adore coming and poking our noses through those old records. Give me a dead person any day over one of my live relatives. So we need to have a place to come and do our genealogy. We love being here at St. Louis County Library. So thank you for your time and please continue with your good works that you do.” Paul Abrams, Frontenac resident, said, “Thank you for letting me speak today. I’m real excited about the genealogical association. But I think that all their points can be covered elsewhere than where you’re talking about putting this facility. Ok. But there’s no reason why this building can’t be expanded to accommodate them. Or they can go get their own facility. Or maybe one of the three of them have four neighbors that would like to sell their house, so you can build this project next to them. A library is a curated collection of sources of information similar resources, selected by experts and made accessible for to (provide) communities for references​​​​​ for borrowing. It provides physical, digital access material and sometimes has a physical location and sometimes it just has a virtual space. While an office is a room, a set of rooms or a building or a place for commercial professional or bureaucratic work for the operation of an organization and not necessarily the provision of the services of that organization. There’s a difference between a library and a library organization. And what you are proposing to build over on S. Spoede Road is not a library.”
Dr. Beckwith thanked each one for their comments.
NEW BUSINESS
Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the St. Louis County Library District Authorizing and Approving the Proposal of the St. Louis County Library District to Construct a Genealogy Library and Administrative Library Building at 1396-1440 South Spoede Road within the City of Frontenac, Missouri.
Dr. Beckwith asked Director Sorth to explain the process the Library used.
Kristen Sorth explained the process at Dr. Beckwith’s request. “We have been looking for land for History and Genealogy and the behind the scenes functions of the library for about five years, maybe a little bit longer. During that process, we looked at 22 locations both to purchase and to lease. We had a search criteria that we used to find property and that included that it be close to the current Headquarters building, accessible to a major highway, and that it was centrally located within the county. And that led us to looking for land not too far from here. One of the 22 options that we looked at was the Ladue Early Childhood Center. We put in a proposal to purchase that land and we were unsuccessful. The Ladue School District chose another developer, McBride Homes. We continued to look and then we heard that there were residents that were interested in selling their homes and we went about purchasing that property. A couple of things about what is taking place at the new location. Of course the history and genealogy center will be located there. It will be a public library open to residents, patrons, and visitors for more hours than the part of the building that houses library employees. Just a point of clarification on who those library employees are. Those are the backbone of the library district. Those are the people that answer the phones, the centralized customer service center, those are the IT department that house all the equipment that is the backbone for all of the library, including all of their databases, and all of their equipment that we need to make sure that all the computers at the other libraries work, that includes all the people that catalog and process the books. So ,without the people that work there, the library does not function. This is the heart and soul of the library. There is some office work of course that will go on there, HR functions, finance functions, those kinds of things, but the bulk of the people housed in there are working on library materials, library programs answering calls from library patrons, and making sure we have computers and Wi-Fi and all of the things that go on with that. So that’s a little bit of the history about where we’ve been.”
Patron Paul Abrams interrupted Dr. Beckwith before the resolution could be read. Dr. Beckwith repeatedly asked him to be seated or leave the room. After a number of additional interruptions, he was asked to leave by Dan Lucas, Manager of Safety and Security.
Dr. Beckwith continued and asked that the resolution be read.
Kristen Sorth read the resolution and recommendation.
Library Administration recommends approving the Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the St. Louis County Library District Authorizing and Approving the Proposal of the St. Louis County Library District to Construct a Genealogy Library and Administrative Library Building, and approving the location, extent, and character thereof, to be located at 1396-1440 South Spoede Road within the City of Frontenac, Missouri.
A motion was made by Michael Mulligan. It was seconded by Dr. Chingling Tai.
Aye: Edith Cunnane, Dr. Chingling Tai, Elena G Kenyon, Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Michael Mulligan
ADJOURNMENT
Michael Mulligan made a motion to adjourn. Elena Kenyon seconded. All members responded with Aye.
The meeting adjourned at 4:30 p.m.
Respectfully,
___________________________________ _______________________
Dr. Chingling Tai Date