{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "B8HR9C658C77",
  "date": "2019-06-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, JUNE 17, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, June 17, 2019 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Dr. Beckwith announced Ms. Edith Cunnane had an excused absence.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director, Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Amy Gibbons, Cheri Remington, David Johnson, Connie Burkhardt, Paul Bayless, Lori Boschert, Amy Hanaway, Julie Cruise, Heather Neill, Erin Magner, Sri Upadhya, Elizabeth Hartwig, Jackie Hamilton, Alaina Culbertson, Jennifer McBride,  Emily Althoff, Mary Arnhart, Meg Coyle, Cindy Hefferman, Anna Schurk, Matt Lakin, H. O. Watkins, Terra Baca, Chasidy Allen, Nicole Clawson, Emma Figueroa, Skylar Stanley, Gina Sheridan, Andrew Freshwater, Kate Hatfield, Christopher Ave, Dawn Ruhbeck, Liz Ruhbeck, Lauren Striebel, Conrad Rader, Will LaChance, Kalin Preston, Jordyn Watson, Annie Fuller, Allison Wisniewski, Aaron Loste, Laura Kasak, Kim Ford, Kelli Reeves and Sandra Williams.
MINUTES
St. Louis County Library Board approved the May 20, 2019 minutes (Mulligan/Kenyon).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Four residents of Frontenac: Elizabeth Hartwig, David Johnson, Thomas Erman and Emily Arneson, expressed their concern with the Library’s choice to build in Frontenac, citing concerns of increased traffic and lack of communication.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that in May, the Library District received $23,500 from St. Louis County’s distribution of the Athletes and Entertainers Tax. This is the first of two payments for the 2019 fiscal year. The Library District also received $4,762 in grant funds from the State of Missouri. The grant funds were for the purchase of materials for the Summer Reading Program.
The Library District spent just over $108,192 in Summer Reading Club expenses, most of which was used to purchase books to be used as incentives for completion of the program.
Capital Projects Fund Financial Statements
Total Construction in Progress for May 2019 was $1,440,849. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $271,455
		Construction costs for Mid County - $286,370
		Construction costs for Thornhill - $165,180
		Architect Fees for the Operations building - $256,775
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $50,540
St. Louis County Library Board approved the May 20, 2019 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Director Sorth shared the following report.
Ms. Sorth introduced Jordyn Latson as the Sidney Johnson summer intern at SLCL. She will work in various capacities and departments for the next ten weeks to get an overall understanding of Library operations. Jordyn will be enrolling at the University of Iowa this fall.
	Ms. Sorth stated that the Dashboard Report for June contains a variety of statistical information for the Library, and includes information about circulation, visits, programming, and PC usage. The report was shared with the Board. With one branch closed for construction, circulation was up 18%.  This is the highest May circulation on record. The Dashboard also includes circulation information for special materials such as puzzles, tabletop games, WiFi hotspots, musical instruments and telescopes. The top titles by circulation are also listed.  The statistics for Meramec Valley are amazing. Circulation was up 34% even though the new branch was only open for 17 days in May.  In the days the Branch was open in May, they welcomed 17,505 visitors and created 828 new library cards for patrons. On the very first Sunday they were open the Branch had 359 visitors and 303 on the second Sunday. In May, Meramec Valley held 26 programs with a total attendance of 1,398 and in June they have hosted 8 children's programs with 487 people attending which averages out to be a stunning 60 attendees per program.
	The Library is now part of the MOBIUS consortium of 76 public and academic libraries. This membership provides Library patrons with easy access to more than 60 million items from academic, special and public libraries through a shared catalog with all member libraries. Starting tomorrow, patrons can request MOBIUS materials through the catalog and will receive their requested materials in approximately three to four days. Previously, materials requested from other library systems could take three to four weeks for delivery.
	The History & Genealogy Department will host a Family History Expo on Saturday, July 27 from 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Representatives from genealogical and lineage societies will be available to discuss their work and provide membership information. Librarians and archivists will be on hand with information about research possibilities in their collections.
	Twelve branches are hosting Alive at 25 in August and September. Alive at 25 is a highly interactive four-hour program that teaches young adults how to make safe, respectful and legal driving decisions. The program is designed for drivers under age 25 and compliments national driver education programs, which focus on laws and vehicle handling. The Safety Council of Greater St. Louis received a grant for the program from MoDOT. They contacted us about hosting the program at our branches.
	Last month, Ms. Sorth mentioned the Library is launching a new pilot with Eye Thrive.  The non-profit works to ensure that no child fails to succeed simply because his or her family cannot afford glasses. They accomplish this through their Mobile Vision Clinic which brings eye exams and glasses for children and teens ages 4 – grade 12. This summer they will add four of our libraries to their list of locations. The mobile clinic will visit Natural Bridge, Weber Road, Rock Road and Lewis & Clark this summer. Most of the visits will take place on the same day as Pizza Fridays for summer lunch. There will be pre-screenings for kids the week prior to the visit to determine if glasses are needed.  If a vision issue is detected, the kids will visit the clinic in the following weeks to receive an eye examine and a pair of glasses that are made onsite.  Forty-five children came to the first screening date at Natural Bridge. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	As discussed in the 2019 Budget, adult literacy is a strategic focus area for the Adult Services Department. On May 20, the Library began offering an online learning tool to help adults improve their reading skills. MindPlay is a research-based online reading comprehension program for adults with no or low literacy skills. The Library purchased 20 licenses for adult learners 18 and older to utilize on a rolling basis for at least eight consecutive weeks at a time. There are currently 10 patrons enrolled in the program.  We will also offer access to News for You Online.  This database contains easy to read news stories that will help patrons learn to read, write, speak and understand the English language.
	The Summer Reading Club began on May 20 and will run through August 3. The Library hosted four summer reading club kick off parties at Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Grant’s View and HQ. Almost 3,000 people attended the parties which included performers, shaved ice, a climbing wall and other activities for children, teens and adults.
	The Library offered Hip Hop Architecture Camp for thirty-two middle school kids at the Natural Bridge Branch from June 3 – 7. The camp is designed to introduce underrepresented youth to architecture, urban planning, creative place making and economic development through the lens of hip-hop. During the camp, students were paired with architects, designers, and musicians to create unique visions for their communities which included the creation of physical models, digital models and the creation of a Hip Hop Architecture track and music video summarizing their designs.  Local Grammy Award winning producer, Alonzo Lee, visited the camp to help the kids with their rap. He also produced the musical portion of their video. On the final day of the camp, the kids visited the Grand Basin and the History Museum in Forest Park to film their rap video. The library plans to have a screening of the hip-hop video in the fall and will invite the kids, their families and the volunteers to the event.
	As previously mentioned, the Library was approached by the Missouri Foundation for Health (MFH) about the 2020 Census. Libraries will play a crucial role in the collection of data because the census forms will be online and many individuals will be accessing the forms through the Library. Accurate census data is very important for both the State of Missouri and the St. Louis region. MFH has asked us to consider how we might assist residents in this process and to submit a proposal to them. Library Administration is in discussions with St. Louis Public Library and St. Charles City-County Library about the proposal. Ms. Sorth attended the St. Louis Regional Census Convening on May 31. In addition to presentations by local officials, non-profits and private foundations, the Regional Director for the U.S. Census Bureau gave an update.
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Ms. Sorth showed a number of great photos to the Board from several programs and events in May and June, including Star Wars Fan Fest at Grant’s View, Sensory Story Time at Weber Road, Mad Mixtures at Cliff Cave, the Thornhill Children’s Garden Grand Opening and Story Time, Suspense Night at HQ, and author Tan France at HQ.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	The Governor signed the State of Missouri’s Budget on June 10. State Aid to Libraries for Fiscal Year 2020 will be restored to the same level as Fiscal Year 2015 which is a significant increase for all public libraries in Missouri. This will add $100,000 to the State Aid amount for St. Louis County Library.
	Library employees will be participating in wellness screenings beginning in June and continuing through July. Employees who do not participate will pay $50 each month toward the cost of their health insurance.
	Ms. Sorth announced that she will be traveling to the American Libraries Association’s annual conference.  She also stated that she would be presenting at the conference this year, and her topic is Civility in the Workplace. In addition, she announced that she would receive the Ernest A. DiMattia, Jr. Award for Innovation and Service to Community and Profession at the conference. She thanked the Library Board and all of the Library employees. She said the award was also for them.
Library Construction and Facility Update
The architects from BatesForum presented plans for the new Genealogy Library and Administrative Library Building at the Frontenac Planning & Zoning meeting on May 28. The Planning and Zoning Commission did not vote on the Library’s proposal and instead continued it to their next meeting on June 25 at 7:00 p.m. They are also planning a public hearing on the same night for the project.
	The four homes along Spoede Road that are located on the land purchased by the Library for the new History and Genealogy/Administrative Building have been abated.
	The installation of the new roof at the Sachs Branch is complete.
	The sealing and striping of the parking lots at Lewis and Clerk is complete. Grant’s View will start in the next few weeks.
Library Foundation
	The Foundation is currently reviewing their Board Governance policies and may be making several recommendations for changes to their Bi-Laws. Per their policy, the Library Board does review and vote on changes to the Bi-Laws for the Foundation.
	The Program Committee of the Foundation recently approved two Alison Grants for Library programs. The first is a refresh for the Florissant Valley children’s area. The Branch plans to buy new items for the Discovery Zone. In addition, the Foundation will fund the Library’s upcoming pilot to offer binoculars for checkout by patrons in partnership with the St. Louis Astronomical Society of Eastern Missouri and the St. Louis Audubon Society. The Library will purchase 20 binocular kits.
	As mentioned previously, plans for a new Foundation website are in progress. A Foundation Committee and the Library’s Advancement Team and Communications Department are working together on this project. Seven firms responded to the Request for Qualifications for the project. The Foundation has approved hiring Interpersonal Frequency to create their new website. Interpersonal Frequency also designed the Library’s website several years ago.
	As a reminder, the St. Louis County Library Foundation’s annual Gala will take place on September 21 at HQ.
Author Events
	Monte Reel, author of “A Brotherhood of Spies,” Monday, June 17, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Elliot Ackerman, author of “Places and Names,” Tuesday, June 18, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	William J. Burns, author of “The Back Channel,” Monday, June 24, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Louis Bayard, author of “Courting Mr. Lincoln,” Thursday, June 27, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Charles Fishman, author of “One Giant Leap,” Tuesday, July 9, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Lisa Barr, author of “The Unbreakables,” Thursday, July 11, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Beatriz Williams, author of “The Golden Hour,” Monday, July 15, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
MOBIUS will be reviewed at the July Board meeting.
Mindplay is now offered for adults wanting to increase their literacy.
Ms. Sorth reported how plans were shared regarding Frontenac planning meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Ms. Sorth gave an update on the construction at Mid-County. Pictures were shown to the Board of the Branch, including pictures of the installed glass. Ms. Sorth also discussed the schematic design for the new Eureka Hills Branch.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - HEALTH INSURANCE
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Employee Benefits – Health Insurance.
The Library received the renewal for employee health insurance from our current carrier, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield. Initially Anthem’s renewal was 10%. With the assistance of Daniel and Henry, we were able to negotiate a lower renewal of 3%. This rate includes the required fees under the Affordable Care Act.  With the Library Board’s approval, the employee rate will increase effective August 1, 2019 from $683.95 to $704.46 a month. The dependent coverage will increase from $774.44 to $797.68 a month. Dependent coverage is for the entire family. The employee is responsible for this amount if they elect to have dependent coverage.  This increase will also affect the rates for the pre-65 insurance plan for retirees. The pre-65 insurance benefit is strictly voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library.
The Library will continue to have employees contribute $15 a month toward the cost of their individual health insurance. In addition, we will continue to have the Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) as defined by the IRS which was approved by the Library Board in 2008. Through the arrangement, the Library’s insurance costs are reduced by combining a higher deductible plan with an HRA. There will be no additional administrative costs with the exception of a renewal fee for each plan of $200 each.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation in consultation with Daniel and Henry, to remain with Anthem.  Daniel and Henry has reported that the average health insurance renewal this year is trending 12%. The 3% renewal from Anthem is below trend and under budget as the budgeted amount for the health insurance renewal was 10% (Mulligan/Tai).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - DENTAL INSURANCE
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Employee Benefits – Dental Insurance.
The Library received the August 1, 2019 renewal for employee dental insurance from our current carrier, Delta Dental. The Library had a rate hold for dental insurance. There will be a 0% increase in employee and dependent rates. Dependent coverage is for the entire family. The employee rate will remain at $35.48 per month. The Library pays for this portion of the dental insurance. The dependent rate remains at $62.82 per month. The employee is responsible for this amount if they elect to have dependent coverage.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation in consultation with Daniel and Henry, to remain with Delta Dental. The budgeted amount for the dental insurance renewal was 10% (Kenyon/Tai).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - VISION INSURANCE
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Employee Benefits – Vision Insurance.
The Library received the renewal for employee optional vision insurance. This benefit renews on August 1, 2019. We received a 3.7% renewal from VSP, the Library’s vision insurance provider. This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library. The employee rate will increase from $7.84/month to $8.13/month. Dependent coverage will increase from $16.86/month to $17.47/month. In addition, the Library received a three-year rate hold from VSP.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation in consultation with Daniel and Henry to remain with VSP for the Library’s optional vision insurance (Mulligan/Kenyon).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - LIFE INSURANCE
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Employee Benefits – Life Insurance.
The Library received the renewal for life, AD&D, long term disability, and voluntary life insurance from our current carrier, The Harford.  There is a 0% increase for the Library’s basic life, and accidental death and dismemberment.  The rates for this coverage will remain at $.27/$01/$1000. There is an 8% increase in the long-term disability insurance.  This increase was the result of a lengthy long term disability claim.  Initially, Hartford’s renewal was 10.5% for the LTD.  Daniel and Henry was able to negotiate a lower rate increase of 8%.  The rates will increase from $.19/$100 to $.20/$100 for long-term disability.  There was no increase last year because the Library had a rate hold.  The average yearly benefit the Library pays per full-time employee is $286.  There were no changes to the voluntary life insurance rates.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation in consultation with Daniel and Henry to remain with The Hartford for life, AD&D, LTD, and voluntary life insurance (Mulligan/Tai).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - SHORT TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
Kris Mooney presented the Administration’s recommendation for Employee Benefits – Short Term Disability Insurance.
The Library received the August 1, 2019 renewal for short term disability from our current carrier, The Hartford.  There will be an 11% increase for the Library’s short term disability insurance. The volume of short term disability claims submitted in the past couple of years has driven the increase.  This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation in consultation with Daniel and Henry to remain with The Hartford for the Library’s optional short term disability insurance (Mulligan/Kenyon).
MSD EASEMENTS AT GRAND GLAIZE
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for MSD Easements at Grand Glaize Branch.
Ms. Sorth reported that the Grand Glaize Branch in Manchester is situated on a wooded hill above a neighborhood. During storms, rainwater runs off the hill and into the backyards of the homeowners below. This has been an ongoing condition since the branch originally opened.
MSD has recently chosen to address this rainwater issue and is planning to install drains at the base of the hill to collect and move rainwater into a new underground drainage system. The proposed work includes installation of four 42” drains. The work is on the far eastern edge of the property, over 200 feet from the existing Library, and 50 feet below. There is no future Library use for that section of property.
In order to facilitate future maintenance on their drain system, MSD is requesting a permanent maintenance easement, as well as a temporary construction easement which will allow the work to be completed. Administration has studied MSD’s plan and is in agreement with it. This easement will result in no cost to the Library.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation that the Board authorize the Director to execute the Easement Agreement with MSD related to the new site drainage system (Mulligan/Tai).
PHASE 3 + EUREKA HILLS ENGINEERING TESTING SERVICES
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation for engineering testing services to the Library District for the Phase 3 and Eureka Hills construction projects.
Library Administration requested the submission of qualifications from firms to provide Engineering Testing Services for the Phase 3 (new Genealogy / Administration building and new Ladue branch) and Eureka Hills Construction projects. The RFQ was published on May 13, 2019. It was posted on the Library’s website and an ad was placed in the Post-Dispatch. In addition, forty-five firms (of which 36 were M/WBE firms) were contacted directly and invited to submit proposals. Responses were due May 26, 2019. Two firms responded.
In accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services, Administration and representatives from Landmark Contract Management independently reviewed and ranked the proposals based on the responses given to the proposal requirements. Administration determined that Geotechnology, Inc. is the best qualified firm in accordance with the following evaluation factors: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; and (d) insurance required such as professional liability. Geotechnology was then asked to submit fee schedules, which were shared with the Board.
Testing firms are generally engaged on a “unit of service” basis. Geotechnology’s unit prices are in line with our expectations for the work specified. As each individual scope of work is defined, not-to-exceed values will be negotiated for each project.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to select Geotechnology, Inc. to provide engineering testing services to the Library District for the Phase 3 and Eureka Hills construction projects and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Kenyon/Mulligan).
FIRST AMENDMENT TO PHASE 3 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH BATESFORUM ARCHITECTS
Kristen Sorth presented the Administration’s recommendation to approve the First Amendment to the Phase 3 Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with BatesForum Architects.
Ms. Sorth reported that the original scope of the Phase 3 Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with BatesForum Architects included design and construction of a single replacement facility for the existing Headquarters building and development of a temporary facility from which staff would work during construction.
Subsequent to the original agreement and during schematic design for the proposed replacement facility, Library Administration revisited the factors that led to the decision to replace the existing Headquarters building with a single new facility. The size of the existing Headquarters property limits the planning opportunities and would lead to a building that was compromised in design. It was decided that every effort would be made to find separate property for an operations facility, thus freeing up the existing headquarters site to be developed to its full potential. After a review of several potential sites, four Spoede Road properties between Clayton Road and I-64 were acquired and will be the location of the new operations building and genealogy center. When completed, the current headquarters site will house a new branch library and event center.
The strategic change from one new building and a temporary facility to two new buildings changes the scope of work for BatesForum. The additional work is subject to an additional fee. As requested by the Library’s Master Plan Administrator, Landmark, BatesForum provided a detailed breakdown of their additional costs. After thorough analysis and negotiation, Administration and Landmark are satisfied that the costs are appropriate and fair.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to approve the First Amendment to the Phase 3 Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with BatesForum Architects and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute said amendment (Tai/Mulligan). The new not-to-exceed compensation for Phase 3 Architectural and Engineering Services with BatesForum Architects will be adjusted to $4,499,281.00, including reimbursables and allowances.
ADJOURNMENT
Dr. Chingling Tai made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)) and personnel (Section 610.021) (3) and (13). Elena Kenyon seconded.  All approved by voice vote.
Meeting ended at 4:23.p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
____________________________                                        ____________________
Dr. Chingling Tai                                                                                Date
Secretary