{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "B8HR8H658AD3",
  "date": "2019-05-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, MAY 20, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, May 20, 2019 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Dr. Beckwith reported that Edith Cunnane had an excused absence.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Nicole Clawson, Jennifer McBride, Katie Keeven, Lindsay Peich, Allison Wisniewski, Andrea Carter, Sarah Brown, Will LaChance, Ross Brand, Mary Arnhart, Terra Baca, Annie Fuller, Kalin Preston, Carla Maxwell, Tiffany Davis, Jake Beard, Kathy Muller, Julie Cruise, Jackie Hamilton, Anna Schurk, Kim Ford, Heather Neill, Deanna Davis, Anna Gonzalez, Anne Bradley, Lauren Hoerr, Scott Holl, Rachel Nowell, Stephanie Nordmann, Kat Van Arsdale, Donna Spaulding, Lauren Striebel, Marie Conlin, Kelli Reeves, Gina Sheridan, Erin Magner, Jennifer Gibson and Sandra Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the April 15, 2019 minutes (Kenyon/Mulligan).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that in April, the Library District received a Missouri state aid payment in the amount of $163,238. This is the last of two payments for St. Louis County’s 2018 fiscal year. The Library District budgeted $326,440 in 2019 for Missouri state aid.
The Library District paid $52,390 in April for three snow events that occurred this past February. The District has incurred $181,342 in snow removal expense this year. The budgeted expense for 2019 was $64,485. The Library District also paid $17,729 for the purchase of two-way radios at Cliff Cave, Grand Glaize, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, and Prairie Commons. The purchase was partially funded by a Tech Mini Grant from the State of Missouri for $13,294. Additionally, this purchase was included in the 2019 Library Budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for April 2019 was $1,371,840. The expenses included payments for:
	Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $757,492
	Construction costs for Mid-County - $544,031
	Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $34,320
The Library Board approved the April Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Mulligan/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Director Kristen Sorth presented the following report.
	Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for May contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, programming, and PC usage. With one branch closed for construction, circulation was up 20%. This is the highest April circulation on record. The Dashboard also includes a breakdown of April circulation by media type.  Print material is still the most popular format. Children and teen books made up 35% of circulation. The report also includes the top titles by circulation.
	The Library will host Science Fest at six branches in May featuring a variety of science-themed programs for all ages. The series will explore engineering, aviation, conservation, geology, robotics, and more. Hands-on activities will be part of every program giving plenty of opportunities for participants to experiment. Over 70 programs are planned for Science Fest at Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Jamestown Bluffs, Natural Bridge, Rock Road, and Sachs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4)
	The Library offered Food for Fines during National Library Week from April 7 – April 13. Patrons could exchange one can of food for $1 in fines up to a maximum of $10. The Library collected 7,200 pounds of food for Operation Food Search. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Summer Lunch Program, in partnership with Operation Food Search, will begin on June 3 at Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Rock Road, and Weber Road. These branches will offer a nutritious lunch along with activities for kids from 12:00-1:00 p.m., Monday - Friday. On Fridays, those children attending will get pizza as a special treat. Pizza Fridays are sponsored by the Foundation and several other donors. The Foundation is also sponsoring Operation Backpack. On Thursdays, families will receive a bag of food to take home for the weekend. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library will host a mobile farmer’s market this summer at Lewis & Clark every Thursday from 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. St. Louis MetroMarket is a non-profit mobile farmers’ market whose goal is to restore access to healthy, affordable food to St. Louis food deserts. Launched in 2013, the organization converted a donated city bus into a grocery store on wheels with a goal of bridging the physical, financial, and educational barriers in food deserts by supplying healthy foods in low-income, high need communities.  This year the People’s Health Center mobile clinic will accompany the MetroMarket on their visits.  The mobile clinic will provide free insurance education, blood pressure screenings and behavioral health information. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4)
	The Reference Department will be hosting a 5-week series in August called Etsy Craft Entrepreneurship. This is a program created by Etsy to help crafters, especially those from underrepresented groups, learn how to become entrepreneurs. This program is sponsored by the Library Foundation through their Alison Grant program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.2)
	The Rock Road Branch was named the Best Library for Kids in the St. Louis Post Dispatch’s 2019 Go! List. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library had a fabulous celebration of the 40th Anniversary of the relationship between St. Louis and Nanjing, our sister city in China. The library delegation from China visited Thornhill on April 27. The visit included a branch tour and a book exchange between the two library systems. Ms. Sorth thanked Dr. Tai for all that she did to make their visit to the Library and to St. Louis a huge success. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	St. Louis hosted the National Genealogical Society Conference this year. Over 2,000 genealogical researchers were in town for the event. Many of the conference attendees visited the History and Genealogy Department at HQ. In addition, H&G employees presented seven sessions at the conference on various topics. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library will be hosting Hip Hop Architecture Camp again this summer. The camp will take place at the Natural Bridge Branch from June 3 – 7, 2019. The Library had 59 applicants for the camp and have selected 40 to attend. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library received more than 280 applicants for the new summer internship program named in honor of former Lewis & Clark employee Sidney Johnson. Jordyn Latson, a graduating senior at McCluer North, was selected for the fifteen-hour-per-week internship for teens between the ages of 16 - 18. Our goal is to introduce students to the profession of Library and Information Science. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Library is launching a new pilot with Eye Care Charity of Mid-America. This non-profit works to ensure that no child fails to thrive simply because his or her family cannot afford glasses. They accomplish this through their Mobile Vision Clinic which brings eye exams and glasses for children and teens ages 4 – grade 12. The clinic visits many school districts in the region during the school year. This summer they will add four of our libraries to their list of locations. The mobile clinic will visit Natural Bridge, Weber Road, Rock Road and Lewis & Clark this summer. Most of the visits will take place on the same day as Pizza Fridays for summer lunch. There will be pre-screenings for kids the week prior to the visit to determine if glasses are needed. If a vision issue is detected, the kids will visit the clinic in the following weeks to receive an eye examine and a pair of glasses that are made onsite. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library is exploring the option of offering binoculars for checkout in partnership with the St. Louis Astronomical Society of Eastern Missouri and the St. Louis Audubon Society.  Administration has applied to the Library Foundation for an Alison Grant to fund this pilot. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library is exploring a partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank. Administration is looking at two possibilities. The first is to provide diapers along with information about using diaper changing times as bonding and language development time in the Born to Read bags.  It would also include information about the Diaper Bank’s distribution centers for families in need.  The second part of the partnership would select a pilot branch to serve as an emergency distribution center for diapers. The St. Louis Area Diaper Bank is part of the National Diaper Bank Network. This partnership, between a Diaper Bank and a public library, would be the first of this type of in the country.  Ms. Sorth will continue to update the Board as we move forward. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	There were a number of great photos to show the Board from several programs and events in March and April, including:  Jazz Up with Art at Natural Bridge, National Bookmobile Day, Community Autism Expo at Indian Trails, Book Buddies at Oak Bend, Star Party at Natural Bridge, author David Brooks at HQ, Butterfly Release at Cliff Cave and the Justice Fleet at Lewis & Clark (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Informational meetings were held for employees that were interested in learning more about the Library’s Deferred Compensation benefit. A representative from Moneta presented at the meetings.
	Administration has selected the following ten employees to participate in the Staff Development Cohort (SDC). These employees will attend the July Board Meeting.  There were 46 employees who applied for the cohort which will begin on June 18 and conclude in March 2020.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
		Adeline Chow (Natural Bridge)
		Alexandra Johnson (Bookmobile and Mobile Services)
		Bonnie Buhse (Rock Road)
		Cierra Summers (Sachs)
		Elise Konya (Meramec Valley)
		Marcia Green (HQ-Circ)
		Nakisha Ford (Florissant Valley)
		Patti Lee (Staff Training)
		William Smith (Cliff Cave)
		Yoli Buie (Lewis & Clark)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Meramec Valley Branch opened to the public on May 15, 2019 at 9:00 a.m. immediately following a ribbon cutting. This is the seventeenth branch to open since we began the construction phase of Your Library Renewed four years ago. The employees worked very hard to get the branch ready to open. Branch employees, ITS, Building Systems and others did a fantastic job. 2,194 people visited on their first day. Ms. Sorth said the patrons were thrilled with the new branch.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	Thornhill’s outdoor activity area for children will open on May 23. The new outdoor children’s area is approximately 2,500 square feet in size. Families can access the enclosed space directly from the children’s area of the library. The outdoor area offers many interactive features including art easels, oversized musical instruments (drums and xylophones), and a flower shaped play structure. There are also moveable stools for story time, benches for parents, and a shade structure. The space features a variety of surfaces such as concrete, playground surfacing and synthetic turf. The space was funded by the St. Louis County Library Foundation. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.3)
	The architects from BatesForum will present at the Frontenac Planning & Zoning meeting on May 28.
	The 2019 Library Budget included plans for an expanded teen area at Natural Bridge.  We are working on preliminary designs. The area that currently includes the small meeting room will be part of the expansion and will no longer function as a meeting room. As a result, patrons will no longer be able to reserve the room after June 30. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.2)
Library Foundation
	Give STL Day was May 1.  The Foundation received $7,484 from 83 donors.
	We were recently notified of several grant awards and gifts. These include:
o $7,665 from Norman J Stupp Foundation for Career Online High School
		$2,827 from the State Library (LSTA) for workforce literacy programming
		$5,340 from the State Library (LSTA) for Parents as Teachers literacy kits
		$2,000 from Blueprint4SummerSTL for Hip Hop Architecture Camp
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	Mary Kay Andrews, author of “Sunset Beach,” Tuesday, May 21, 2019, 7:00 p.m.
	Becky Kueker, author of “A Classic in Clown Shoes,” Wednesday, May 22, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Melanie Benjamin, author of “Mistress of the Ritz,” Wednesday, May 29, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Rebecca Makkai and Jean Kwok, authors of “The Great Believers,” and “Searching for Sylvia Lee,” respectively, Tuesday, June 04, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	2019 Suspense Night, Thursday, June 06, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
		Reed Farrel Coleman, “What You Break,” Robert B. Parker’s “Colorblind”
		Jeffery Deaver, “The Never Game,” “The Burial Hour”
		Meg Gardiner, “Unsub,” “Into the Black Nowhere”
		Greg Hurwitz, “Out of the Dark,” “Orphan X”
		Special Guest Appearance by actor, director and television producer Ken Olin.
	Tan France, author of “Naturally Tan,” Ticketed Event, Saturday, June 08, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters, SOLD OUT.
	Casey Cep, author of “Furious Hours,” Tuesday, June 11, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Martin Walker, author of “The Body in the Castle Well,” Wednesday, June 12, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Monte Reel, author of “A Brotherhood of Spies,” Monday, June 17, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
Ms. Sorth said there was an interview done today prior to the Board meeting with St. Louis Magazine.
Dr. Beckwith said school will be extended next year due to a bill.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, gave an update on the Library construction projects. He was pleased to report that the seventeenth branch, Meramec Valley, has opened. He said Mid-County is making progress, with walls, doors, and an elevator being installed. Mr. Hunter shared that the newly finished Children's Garden at Thornhill is beautiful. The garden has interactive panels, benches, giant musical instruments, and permanent art easels.
FIRST EARLY CONSTRUCTION WORK PACKAGE FOR HISTORY & GENEALOGY/ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
Steve Hunter presented Administration’s recommendation for the early construction work package for the new Administration/History & Genealogy building.
Site development documents (concerning work for abatement, demolition, site clearing, grading, site remediation, and retaining walls) for the new History & Genealogy / Administration building on Spoede Road were delivered by BatesForum Architects on April 26, 2019. Brinkmann Constructors organized the work into a bid package and released it for bid on April 29, 2019.
The bid notice was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the St. Louis American, the SLCL website, SmartinSight.com, MOKAN, and in various physical and on-line plan rooms. A pre-bid / outreach meeting was held at Headquarters with a walk-through of the new site on May 3, 2019.
Bids were opened in a public meeting on May 10, 2019 at Headquarters. There were six individual bids received. Brinkmann conducted a post-bid interview with the lowest bidder to ensure their bid is inclusive of the required scope of work.
The Library Board approved Administration’s selection of the lowest and best bid from Kolb Grading at $1,295,000 for abatement, demolition, site clearing, grading, site remediation, and retaining walls at the site of the new History & Genealogy / Administration building and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Mulligan/Tai).
Contingency
Administration requests approval of a contingency fund for this project with a total value of $275,000 for unforeseen conditions and owner requested changes. The spending of this contingency fund will be approved by Kristen Sorth, Library Director or Steve Hunter, Assistant Director as needed during the execution of the project. The accounting of the expenditures against the contingency fund will be reported back to the Library Board.
The Library Board approved the recommendation of Administration to begin a project contingency fund for this 3A work package totaling $275,000 (Chingling/Tai).
CLOUD VOIP TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Gib Van Cleve presented Administration’s recommendation for a Cloud VOIP Telephone System.
Mr. Van Cleve shared that the current phone system has reached end-of-life status and is no longer supported by ShoreTel. Also, Affiniti will no longer offer the service at the end of June. In addition to providing voice services for Library staff, the phone system is a critical patron-facing component of the Library’s Customer Connect department. Quality telephone services are key to the Customer Connect function.
The current five-year contract with Affiniti for the existing Shoretel phone system expires June 30, 2019. A Request For Proposal (RFP) was issued for a Cloud VOIP Telephone System on March 19. Lashly Baer was involved in this process.  The RFP was posted on the Library’s website and advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
RFP responses were due April 18, 2019. The Library received nine responses. Responses were reviewed by a team consisting of Amy Gibbons, Erin Dominguez, Lindsey Piech, Kim Ford, and Gib Van Cleve. Three of the nine were selected based on system features and pricing. They provided live demonstrations for the selection team. The team felt Jive provided the best administrative features, best voice quality and was the lowest and best response to the RFP in accordance with the Library Board’s policy. Jive is priced 15% less than our current Affiniti/ShoreTel system.
Fuze displayed poor audio quality during testing and when speaking to their representatives on the phone.  Vertical’s solution did not include phones and lacked key software features that once added, raised their price.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to purchase Jive’s Cloud VOIP Telephone System which includes phones as the lowest and best solution for the cost of $187,342 for 36 months, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. VOIP telephone services are included in the 2019 Telecommunications budget (Mulligan/Kenyon).
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. Elena Kenyon made a motion to adjourn.  Dr. Tai seconded.  All responded affirmatively by voice vote. Aye: Dr. Chingling Tai, Elena G Kenyon, Michael Mulligan, Dr. Lynn Beckwith
Meeting ended at 4:10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_________________________                                              _____________________
Dr. Chingling Tai                                                                    Date
Secretary