{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "B8HR7M658772",
  "date": "2019-07-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, JULY 15, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, July 15, 2019 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Ms. Edith Cunnane was present via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement, Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Lauren Striebel, Erin Magner, Chris Goodman, Skylar Stanley, Rachel Nowell, Tiffany Davis, Katie Keeven, Sarah Brown, Annie Fuller, Paul Bayless, Amy Gibbons, Cierra Summers, Terra Baca, Julie Cruise, Anna Gonzalez, Keir Haug, Adeline Chow, Nicole Walsh, Emily Althoff, Anne Bradley, Anne Arthur, Elise Konya, Tracy Fletcher, Jackie Hamilton, Mary Arnhart, Jennifer Alexander, Allison Wisniewski, Gina Sheridan, Yoli Buie, Will LaChance, Meg Coyle, Stephanie Nordmann, Nora Marino, Bonnie Buhse, Patti Lee, Donna Spaulding, Liz Ruhbeck, Ross Brand, Nakisha Ford, Barb Reale, Anna Schurk, Marcia Green, Cheri Remington, Marie Conlin, Jennifer McBride, Natalia Catlett, Jake Eubanks, Scott Holl, Sarah Wood, Amy Hanaway, Aaron Loste, Andrea Johnson, Lauren Hoerr, Conrad Rader, Rebecca Clarke and Sandra Williams.
MINUTES
St. Louis County Library Board approved the June 17 and June 27, 2019 minutes (Mulligan/Tai).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported that in June, the Library District received two grant payments totaling $8.374 in funds from the State of Missouri. The first payment received was for $6,000 and the funds were used to complete Rhythm & Tunes videos. The second payment received was for $2,374 and the funds were used to purchase Parents as Teacher’s educator kits. Also, in June, the Library District received $52,500 from the St. Louis County Library Foundation for the recently completed construction of the Thornhill Branch Children’s Garden.
The Library District paid Lakeside Roofing $196,887 for the construction of the new roof at the Samuel C. Sachs Branch. The total cost of the roof is $207,250 and a final payment will be in July. The roof replacement was approved by the Board at the 2018 September Board Meeting and was part of the 2018 budget, but the project was pushed to 2019. The cost was not part of the 2019 budget.
In June, the Library District also paid Arcturis $61,633 for architect fees for the new Eureka Hills Branch. The Branch is not part of the Your Library Renewed construction plan, and the cost of the new building will be paid out of the fund balance assigned for capital improvements in the Maintenance & Operating Fund. The Board approved the fees at the 2019 February Board Meeting and the cost was included in the 2019 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total construction in progress for June 2019 was $1,370,379. The expenses included payments for:
	Construction costs for Mid-County - $976,757
	Architect Fees for the History & Genealogy Library/Administration Building - $190,313
	Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $42,985
Administration recommends approval of the June 2019 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Mulligan/Kenyon).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Director Kristen Sorth presented the following report.
	Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for July contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, programming, and PC usage. The report was shared with the Board. With one branch closed for construction, circulation was up 16%. This is the highest June circulation on record. Several branches saw significant increases, including Meramec Valley at 106%, Lewis & Clark at 12%, and Grant’s View at 10%. The Dashboard also includes a 6-month circulation comparison between January – June of 2019 over the last five years. This comparison demonstrates the impact that auto renew has had on the Library’s circulation. The report also includes preliminary summer lunch statistics. The Library served 7,520 summer lunches in the month of June. Florissant Valley had the highest attendance followed by Weber Road. The top titles by circulation are also listed. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Library will offer binoculars for checkout starting July 22, 2019 in partnership with the St. Louis Astronomical Society of Eastern Missouri and the St. Louis Audubon Society. Twenty pairs of binoculars have been added to the collection. Each pair comes with a waterproof case, a night sky viewing guide and a Backyard Birds of Eastern/Central North American guide. We will offer special programming in conjunction with the binocular lending program. The St. Louis County Library Foundation funded this pilot. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4)
	On June 24, the Library added an eBestseller collection to the eBook collection. This is a non-holdable collection (eBooks and eAudiobooks) of some of the Library’s most popular titles. This is very similar to our physical Bestseller collection that is available at every branch and HQ. When eBestseller titles are available, they will be displayed on the Library’s main eBook page. Patrons may check out up to two eBestsellers at a time with a checkout period of 21-days. In the first seven days of this program, 250 copies circulated 307 times! There are currently forty-two titles available. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1)
	The Library is piloting a new program in partnership with Oasis’ Intergenerational Tutoring program. Children in kindergarten through third grade will have an opportunity to keep their reading skills on track during the summer months with this partnership. The pilot program, set to begin July 18 and concluding August 8, will take place at Weber Road and Florissant Valley. The service is free and tutoring is available on a walk-in, first come, first served basis. Children participating in the free program will work one-on-one for 30-minute sessions with older adults who serve as tutors with the Oasis Intergenerational Tutoring Program, the largest older adults tutoring program in the U.S. The sessions will focus on reading and literacy skills. Each week, kids who participate in the program will take home a free book to encourage reading after the tutoring session. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1)
	As Ms. Sorth mentioned last month, the Library is launching a new pilot with Eye Thrive. Their Mobile Vision Clinic provides free eye exams and glasses for youth ages 4 – grade 12. The mobile clinic will visit Natural Bridge, Weber Road, Rock Road and Lewis & Clark this summer. Most of the visits will take place on the same day as Pizza Fridays for summer lunch. Both Natural Bridge and Weber Road have already hosted the screening and clinic. Eye Thrive has screened 105 children and 89 children visited the clinic the following week. Of those, 41 children have received glasses. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library hosted two chess tournaments for kids from age 8 – 17 at the Natural Bridge Branch. One tournament took place in April and 39 kids participated. The other was held in June with 45 participants. We learned that this was the first chess tournament for many of the players. The event was directed by the St. Louis Chess Club. They handled registration and the bracketing of players for each round. We had four total rounds and each player received a score for each round. When all four rounds concluded and scores were tallied, the top three players in the younger and older brackets received trophies. Many families stayed for the entire day. The branch had a variety of activities to occupy the family members. Both tournaments were sponsored by Citi. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Ms. Sorth shared a number of photos with the Board from several programs and events in June and July, including: Paint Your Colors at Natural Bridge, author Casey Cep at HQ, Arabic Story Time at Daniel Boone, In the Library with Louie at Bridgeton Trails, Tie-Dye Your Own t-shirt at Daniel Boone, Constellation Cookies at Grant’s View, Mr. Stinky Feet at HQ, Online Graphic Design for Kids at Natural Bridge, Teens in Business at HQ, Sew-Tastic at Sachs, Listen Up STL Live at Sachs, and Summer Lunch at Florissant Valley. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth welcomed the first Staff Development Cohort to the Library Board Meeting today. The objective of the cohort is to develop staff that show great aptitude and interest and provide individuals with opportunities to develop professionally and to make greater contributions to the Library. The cohort started in June. The cohort consists of the following employees, and they were introduced to the Board:
		Bonnie Buhse---Library Assistant--Rock Road
		Yoli Buie---Circulation Assistant---Lewis & Clark
		Adeline Chow---Library Assistant Natural Bridge
		Nakisha Ford---Library Assistant--Florissant Valley
		Marcia Green---Circulation Assistant---HQ Circulation
		Alexandra Johnson---Library Assistant---Bookmobiles and Mobile Services
		Elise Konya---Library Clerk---Meramec Valley
		Patti Lee---Staff Trainer---HQ
		William Smith---Library Assistant---Cliff Cave
		Cierra Summers---Circulation Assistant---Sachs
	Erin Magner, Manager, Adult Services, was selected to participate in the 2019-2020 cohort of Focus St. Louis Impact Fellows. The FOCUS Impact Fellows program brings together experienced leaders from across St. Louis’ business, public and nonprofit sectors to make an impact on social issues in the region. They work in collaboration with community organizations and experts to facilitate evidence-based project-driven innovation and change-making. This cohort will tackle workforce development with an emphasis on employment as an off-ramp from the pipeline to prison. They will collaboratively address some of the most urgent project needs identified by partner community organizations and will focus on youth unemployment, justice-vulnerable populations like African American males 18-25, women, particularly women of color, and populations subject to the social determinants of justice involvement. They will also focus on re-entry populations including wrap-around services and employer based approaches. (Plan: Foster a Sense of Community: 1)
	Reference Librarian, Mel Lambert, was invited by EveryLibrary to attend the 2019 Rural Rise Summit in Pine Bluff, Arkansas taking place September 17-19, 2019. EveryLibrary is working to tell the story of how libraries help entrepreneurs at all levels, and is also working to connect more rural business owners with library resources. Mel will present and start conversations about how libraries can reach out to rural populations. They will pay for all of her costs to attend. Mel has met with business owners in Book a Librarian sessions who drove over 2 hours from rural areas to learn how SLCL can help them. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	For the sixth year in a row, the St. Louis County Library was named a Top Workplace for 2019 by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. The announcement appeared in the Sunday, June 23rd edition of the paper. The Library was ranked 9th out of 20 "Large" companies. We were thrilled to receive this honor. The designation was made after Library employees were surveyed by an independent research organization. Library employees responded to questions about job satisfaction, benefits, management, training opportunities and leadership. Seventy-nine percent of Library employees responded to the survey. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	As Ms. Sorth previously mentioned, the Library will be decentralizing the ordering of supplies in the next several months. Past practices involved a centralized supply department located at HQ. In the future, each branch and department will order and store their own supplies directly and as needed. This will be a more efficient and effective process and will eliminate the need for a supply storage area in the new Genealogy Library and Administrative Library Building. This process will continue to be monitored by the Finance Department.
	The Library is using a vacant full time position to create an additional management position at Rock Road. The volume of patrons as well as an increase in incidents at the branch has necessitated this addition. We have decided to post this position without the Master’s Degree in Library Science requirement in order to broaden the applicant pool. (Plan: Sense of Community 2)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The architects from BatesForum and Library Administration presented updated plans for the new Genealogy Library and Administrative Library Building at a second Frontenac Planning & Zoning meeting on June 25. The first meeting was held in May. The re-working of the vehicle lot, where the bookmobiles are parked, was shown as well as the extensive buffering and screening for the building and parking areas. The Planning and Zoning Commission rejected the Library’s proposal. As authorized by 89.380 RSMo., the Library Board met on June 27 and unanimously approved the proposal, overruling the City of Frontenac’s Planning and Zoning Commission. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The City of Frontenac issued a land disturbance permit and a retaining wall permit for work on the homes and land along Spoede Road. The work that falls under those permits is underway. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Library has received the next round of incentives from Ameren through their Missouri BizSavers program. The energy efficient improvements at the Meramec Valley Branch resulted in $5,473 in incentives for the Library.
	The work on Musick Road near the Grant’s View Branch is nearing completion. The latest report from St. Louis County gives late August as a completion date.
Library Foundation
	Civic Progress and the Regional Business Council announced their commitment to fund several organizations aimed at strengthening the area’s underserved neighborhoods. The St. Louis County Library and the St. Louis Public Library were jointly awarded $100,000 for our partnership in offering the Career Online High School program to patrons in the County and the City. Civic Progress is an organization comprising the CEOs and business heads from more than 30 of the St. Louis region’s leading employers who seek to leverage public and private resources to improve the region and better connect St. Louis with the global community. Since its founding in 1953, Civic Progress has supported many significant projects including the recent transformation of the Gateway Arch grounds. The Regional Business Council, founded in 2000, is composed of 100 CEOs representing some of the region’s largest employers. These companies have a tremendous impact on the economic health of the region, employing over 120,000 people and generating over $65 billion in revenue annually. In addition to supporting the Clean Sweep efforts, the mission of the RBC is to unite and engage members to act on high-impact business, civic and philanthropic affairs for the betterment of the St. Louis region.
	The Library has been recently notified of the following grant awards:
		$2,500 from National Network of Libraries of Medicine, Midcontinental Region for health screenings at Natural Bridge Branch.
		$40,000 from Opus Foundation for Career Online High School. This grant funds a strategy consultant and program expenses necessary to grow the COHS program.
		$50,000 from Emerson for the expansion of the Natural Bridge Teen Space.
		$35,000 from Emerson for the Ritenour High School WiFi hotspot lending pilot.
	As a reminder, the St. Louis County Library Foundation’s annual Gala will take place on September 21 at HQ. The Library will close at 1:00 p.m. on this date.
Author Events
	Beatriz Williams, author of “The Golden Hour,” Monday, July 15, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Linda Castillo, author of “Shamed,” Tuesday, July 16, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Steamy Summer Reads with Randy Susan Meyers and M.J. Rose, authors of “Waisted,” and “The Library of Light and Shadow,” respectively, Wednesday, July 24, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	John McManus, author of “Fire and Fortitude: The US Army in the Pacific War, 1941-1943,” Tuesday, July 30, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Martin Clark, author of “The Substitution Order,” Wednesday, July 31, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Dan O’Neill, “Celebration: The Magic of the Cardinals in the 1980s,” Monday, August 5, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	An Evening of Mystery with Shari Lapena and Laura McHugh, authors of “Someone We Know,” and “The Wolf Wants In,” respectively, Thursday, August 8, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Robert Crais, author of “A Dangerous Man,” Monday, August 12, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Sister Helen Prejean, author of “River of Fire,” Friday, August 16, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Lisa Lutz, author of “The Swallows,” Monday, August 19, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
Dr. Beckwith commented that he was recently at both the Florissant Valley and Lewis & Clark Branches and wanted to commend staff at each branch for being extremely courteous.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, gave an update on the Library construction projects. New pictures of Mid-County were shared with the Board. For the new Administration and History & Genealogy building, utilities have been disconnected for two of the four properties on the site, and the Library is applying for demolition permits this week. The Library is currently working through design stages for the new Eureka Hills Branch. The Musick Road project should be complete in the next month.
STRATEGIC PLAN UPDATE
Library Planner Marie Conlin gave an update on the 2019-2022 Strategic Plan that was approved by the Library Board in October 2018. Within the plan, goals and objectives are grouped into three major areas of focus: literacy, community, and impact. Ms. Conlin identified different Library programs and services from this year that have supported the plan.
AFFILIATION AGREEMENT
Barbara Turkington presented Administration’s recommendation for the Affiliation Agreement between St. Louis County Library and St. Louis County Library Foundation.
With the establishment of the Foundation as a separate 501(c) (3) in June of 2010, the Library and the Foundation entered into an Affiliation Agreement and a Shared Services Agreement to describe the relationship between the two entities.
The Affiliation Agreement was updated in 2016 to reflect changes in the Foundation Board’s ByLaws including a change to the duration of the agreement from five years to three years. The new affiliation agreement was shared with the Board and includes no changes except to renew the agreement for three more years until July 31, 2022. The Foundation Board approved the revised Affiliation Agreement on July 10, 2019.
The Library Board approved the new Affiliation Agreement dated July 15, 2019 (Mulligan/Kenyon).
FOUNDATION BOARD TERM LIMITS
Barbara Turkington presented Administration’s recommendation for the approval of the amendment to the Foundation Bylaws.
The St. Louis County Library Foundation Bylaws state that any changes to the Bylaws, such as the selection of directors and length of service for those directors, requires the approval of the Library Board of Trustees prior to the Foundation Board adopting the changes.
In 2015, the Foundation Board changed the Bylaws and applied term limits for its directors. The Board of Trustees approved the adoption of board term limits and the Foundation amended its bylaws to reflect that change. However, after four years and a thorough review of this process, the tenure and make-up of the Foundation Board since September of 2015 reveals that the Foundation does not need or desire to continue to operate with Board Member term limits.
The current board is a diverse board by age, sex, race, skill sets, business experience, Foundation Board familiarity and other community awareness and contacts.
Additionally, term limits at this time would result in an inordinately large turnover of Board members and experience. There is no statutory or other legal requirement that the Foundation Board operate with term limits.
The resolution which will be presented to the Foundation Board for approval at the August 13, 2019 Board meeting was shared with the Board.
The Library Board approved the amendment to the Foundation Bylaws to remove term limits from The Foundation Board of Directors (Mulligan/Tai).
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Michael Mulligan made a motion to adjourn. Dr. Tai seconded. All responded affirmatively by voice vote. Aye: Edith Cunnane, Dr. Chingling Tai, Elena G Kenyon, Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Michael Mulligan
Meeting ended at 4:19 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_________________________                                              _____________________
Dr. Chingling Tai                                                                    Date
Secretary