{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "B8HR6R658356",
  "date": "2019-04-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 South Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 15, 2019 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Michael Mulligan, Vice President
Elena Kenyon, Treasurer
Dr. Chingling Tai, Secretary
Edith Cunnane, Member via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Anna Smith, CORO Fellow, Amy Luchun, Batesforum; Ellen Eckert, Batesforum, Tom Curran, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly & Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Jennifer Gibson, Conrad Rader, Heather Neill, Anne Arthur, Crystal Harris, Lauren Striebel, Barb Reale, Scott Holl, Donna Spaulding, Alaina Culbertson, Keir Haug, Tiffany Davis, Sri Upadhya, Stacy Berger, Terra Baca, Matt Lakin, Lisa Haddox, Andrew Freshwater, Nicole Clawson, Lauren Hoerr, Laura Kasak, Paul Bayless, Amy Hanaway, Julie Cruise, Connie Dee, Chasidy Allen, Lori Boschert, Stephanie Nordmann, Annie Fuller, Anna Schurk, Mary Arnhart, Jennifer Alexander, Rebecca Clarke, and Sandra Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the March 18, 2019 minutes (Cunnane/Mulligan).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney reported the following information.
.
In March, The Library District received payment from the annual tax levied on Missouri financial institutions in the amount of $541,797. In 2018, the District received a total of $528,011 in Financial Institution Taxes. Additionally, the Library District received $11,548 in grant funds from the State of Missouri. The grant funds were for the purchase of a simple scan fax machine at Florissant Valley, two-way radios for staff at several Library branches, and children’s programming.
The Library District made the annual contribution to the Employee Pension Plan. The contributed amount was $2,360,562 and was approved by the Board at the March 2019 Meeting. The Library District transferred funds to the trustee of the Library’s Certificate of Participation funds, BOKF, to pay the annual principal payment of $2,500,000 and the April interest payment of $1,997,248. These payments were made by our trustee on April 1, 2019 and are included in the 2019 budget.
Capital Projects Fund Balance Sheet
Total Construction in Progress for March 2019 was $894,460. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Meramec Valley - $313,660
		Construction costs for Mid County - $170,000
		Furniture for Phase 2 - $116,272
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator - $35,200
The Library Board approved the March Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Kenyon/Tai).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth gave the following report.
	Ms. Sorth stated that the dashboard report for April contains a variety of statistical information about circulation, visits, programming and PC usage. Ms. Sorth shared the report with the Board. With one branch closed for construction, circulation was up 18%.  This increase is largely due to the implementation of auto renewals at the end of 2018.   Circulation for eMedia hit a record high in March. This was the first full month the Library offered e-magazines through Flipster. This month the dashboard includes a chart reflecting check-outs by the day of the week and the hour of day. In March, Saturdays had the most check-outs and the busiest hours of the day were from 4:00-5:00 p.m.  The top titles by circulation are also listed.
	The Library has joined the MOBIUS consortium of 76 public and academic libraries located primarily in Missouri. This membership provides Library patrons with easy access to more than 29 million items through a shared catalog with all member libraries. In addition, the MOBIUS membership provides access to a network of more than 50 libraries in the state of Colorado. The user experience will be nearly seamless for our patrons. Administration anticipates that this added access will greatly increase the number of requests to borrow items from other libraries. As a result of the streamlined workflow and efficient courier routes, patrons will now receive requests from other library systems in 3-4 days as opposed to 2-4 weeks. It is anticipated that the shared catalog access for the public will be available this summer. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1)
	During National Library Week, April 7 – April 13, the Library hosted a bookmobile open house at HQ. Two bookmobiles were open to the public for family activities and crafts.  The Library also presented a special bookmobile-themed story time on the same day.  The bookmobiles also celebrated National Bookmobile Day with the children at their regular visits. Bookmobile service started soon after the Library opened in 1947. The fleet visits 60 schools, 120 preschools and 100 retirement centers. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	As Ms. Sorth has mentioned previously, Administration has been working on a library celebration of the 40th Anniversary of the relationship between St. Louis and Nanjing, our sister city in China. The library delegation from China will visit the Thornhill Branch on April 27 at 3:00 p.m. During that visit, staff are planning for a branch tour and a book exchange between the two library systems. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	The Library hosted our second Career Online High School graduation on March 23 at HQ. Eleven students graduated. It was a fabulous evening. A special thank you to Dr. Beckwith for his inspiring speech to the graduates. St. Louis Community College presented a three credit hour scholarship to each graduate. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3)
	The Library was approached by the Missouri Foundation for Health (MFH) about the 2020 Census. Libraries will play a crucial role in the collection of data because the census forms will be online and many individuals will be accessing the forms through the Library. Accurate census data is very important for both the State of Missouri and St. Louis. MFH has asked us to consider how we might assist residents in this process and to submit a proposal to them. In addition, several Washington University students are working on ideas for engaging citizens and I will be attending their “pitch” session this month. MFH is also working on a letter that will be signed by business owners, non-profits, and governmental agencies in support of accurate census reporting. Ms. Sorth will keep the Board updated as plans progress. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Summer Reading Club starts on May 20 and continues to August 3. Summer Reading Club participants can track their reading online or by using a paper log, available at all Library locations. Readers can collect virtual badges for reading, attending library events and visiting participating area attractions like the Saint Louis Zoo, The Magic House and the Science Center. Prizes, including books, sponsor coupons and more, will be awarded for each age group (early readers, kids, teens and adults). Raffles for bonus prizes will be available for individuals who complete additional reading and activities. Kick-off parties will be held on Wednesday, May 29 at Florissant Valley, Thursday, May 30 at Grand Glaize, Friday, May 31 at Grant's View and Saturday, June 1 at Headquarters. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	The strategy for the ConnectED Library Card Challenge shifted this year to issuing virtual cards to every student in each school district. This shift was made to reduce barriers to school participation in the program, but it also greatly streamlines the workflow for library staff. The changes allow for very quick turnaround times on the creation of library accounts for students. Additionally, it opened up the opportunity for incoming students to be added to the program throughout the year. Virtual cards offer students access to most of the databases, e-books, and e-media at the library. An added benefit of the virtual library cards is that there are no fines or fees incurred. School districts that agree to the memorandum of understanding will automatically renew their participation for each subsequent school year. A final benefit that results from the streamlined workflow is that we are now able to issue ConnectED cards to many of the larger private schools.  She said she was pleased to report that the Library just added the Ferguson-Florissant School District, which added almost 10,000 students to the program.  In addition, two private schools, CBC and Nerinx Hall are now participating. They join the following school districts:  Clayton, Parkway, Hancock Place, Riverview Gardens, Ritenour, Jennings, Afton, Ladue, and Lindbergh. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	This month the Library began offering coding programs for adults in partnership with local non-profit LaunchCode. The Discovery Learning Program will introduce the students to the basic skills needed to work in the technology industry. The online program is self-paced and will take place every Tuesday evening starting in April, and ending on May 21.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1)
	Adult Services is developing plans to launch MindPlay, which is an online reading comprehension program that was included in the 2019 Library Budget. The software is for our adult patrons who are unable to read or need assistance developing their reading abilities. The Library has budgeted for a limited number of digital "seats" in the program.  We expect to launch the product in the coming weeks. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth was approached by an Assistant Dean at Washington University about a program that the University’s Institute for School Partnership presents in school districts.  Eric Button and Ms. Sorth met with the coordinator to discuss the program called Novel Engineering. We felt that it would be a great addition to SLCL. This program asks participants to read a book or an excerpt from a book, to identify a problem that could be addressed through engineering a solution using basic supplies. We plan to pilot the program this summer. Two sessions will be offered at both HQ and FV over the summer. If the program goes well, the Library plans to offer training for more employees to expand the innovative program that was developed by Tufts University. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared with the Board. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Ms. Sorth shared a number of great photos with the Board from several programs and events in January and February including:  Women in Business at HQ, Empowered Princess Story Time at Cliff Cave, Art History: Frido Kahlo at Sachs, Coding 101 Finale at Cliff Cave, Budding Artists at HQ, Superhero Cookie Decorating at HQ, Library After Hours at Daniel Boone, Warm Up American Recap at Grand Glaize and Teen VR Game Night at Rock Road.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
 Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library will be honored by North County Incorporated at its 41st Annual Leadership Breakfast on May 10.  The Library is being recognized for our collaboration with CITI on efforts supporting kids and families in North County. This included a sock and underwear drive and distribution of hygiene kits last summer. The sock and underwear drive resulted in 5,247 items donated to the Little Bit Foundation. In addition, 1,355 hygiene kits were distributed to students at Lewis & Clark in partnership with Little Bit. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library is ready to launch the Staff Development Cohort (SDC) that was included in the 2019 Library Budget. Full-time employees who do not possess a Master's Degree in Library and Information Science are eligible to apply if they have completed a full year of employment with the Library. We anticipate the SDC will be offered annually as an opportunity to develop employees and help them grow professionally. The first cycle for applications opened up on April 1. To date, 22 employees have applied for the Cohort. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	The Library is participating in a program through FOCUS that brings twelve talented, high-potential leaders to St. Louis to participate in the Coro Fellows Program in Public Affairs. This select group of Fellows in St. Louis is part of a group of 60 Fellows chosen nationally to participate in the program. Kicking off their nine-month program in August, 2018, the Coro Fellows participate in a variety of project placements in each of the following five sectors: nonprofit, government, business, electoral politics, and organized labor. Launched in 1947, the Coro Fellows Program in Public Affairs is a national program located in five U.S. cities: St. Louis, Pittsburgh, New York City, Los Angeles and San Francisco. We are lucky to host one of the Fellows, Anna Smith, for the next month. Anna is from Wisconsin and went to Colorado College. She graduated last May. Anna will be with us for one month. While she is here, Anna has two research projects. Her first is to examine the Library’s performance evaluation process by talking with managers and employees about things they like and things they would change about the process. Anna will also look at best practices from both the private and public sector regarding performance evaluations. She also plans to focus on how the library can attract young adults to our programs. Anna will present recommendations for both projects before she leaves us on May 9th. While she is here, Anna will also attend various meetings and programs at the Library.
	ITS is preparing for the deployment of Windows 10 on all public access PCs this summer. The Windows 10 operating system software will be installed on our existing PC hardware. ITS is working with numerous vendors to assure that Windows 10 works with all of our behind-the-scenes systems and software. We are also collaborating with the Training department so that they can adjust their training materials and coursework. A smooth Windows 10 transition experience for the public and staff is the priority. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Meramec Valley Branch will reopen to the public on May 15, 2019 at 9:00 a.m. immediately following a ribbon cutting. This will be the seventeenth branch to open since we began the construction phase of Your Library Renewed four years ago. The current branch occupies a small space owned by the City of Fenton. Per the lease agreement, we have notified the City that we will vacate the premises. The current branch will close to the public on April 27. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Library is conducting a survey of both the patrons and the employees of the Eureka Hills Branch. The survey results will be used during the design process of the new branch. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth was happy to announce the hiring of a new Manager of Development to replace Jim Bogart who retired on March 12. Jackie Hamilton will start at the Library on April 29. Barbara Turkington and Ms. Sorth selected Jackie as the finalist after interviewing four candidates. There were 31 applicants for the position. Before we made the job offer, the Executive Committee of the Foundation Board met with Jackie over lunch and strongly agreed with our recommendation. Jackie has been the Chief Development Officer at Beyond Housing since 2014. Prior to that, she was the Director of Development at Eden Theological Seminary.
	The Foundation hosted its annual donor appreciation breakfast on March 13. The breakfast had the highest attendance ever with 77 attendees.
	The Foundation will host a fundraising event for the Born to Read program. The annual reception will be held on May 22 at the Danforth Plan Science Center.
	Plans for a new Foundation website are in progress. A Foundation Committee and the Library’s Advancement Team and Communications Department are working together on plans for the new website. Seven firms responded to the Request for Qualifications for the project. The joint committee will be making a final selection in the next month.
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	SOLD OUT David Brooks – Ticketed Event, author of “The Second Mountain,” Thursday, April 18, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Helen Ellis, author of “Southern Lady Code,” Monday, April 22, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Nell Freudenberger, author of “Lost and Wanted,” Wednesday, April 24, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Kirk Wallace Johnson, author of “The Feather Thief,” Monday, April 29, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Martha Hall Kelly, author of “Lost Roses,” Tuesday, April 30, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Roshani Chokshi, author of “Aru Shah and the Song of Death,” Wednesday, May 01, 2019, 6:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Thurston Clarke, author of Honorable Exit, Thursday, May 2, 2019 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Jonathan Drori, author of “Around the World in 80 Trees,” Monday, May 6, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Nidhi Chanani, author of “I Will Be Fierce!”, Tuesday, May 07, 2019, 6:30 p.m.
	Louis Bayard, author of “Courting Mr. Lincoln,” Wednesday, May 08, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	E.K. Johnston, author of “Queen’s Shadow,” Friday, May 10, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	A Night of Mystery with Hilary Davidson and Laura Benedict, Tuesday, May 14, 2019 7:00 p.m.
	Chris Pavone, author of “The Paris Diversion,” Thursday, May 16, 2019, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
Dr. Beckwith announced that Kristen Sorth was nominated and won the Ernest Dimattia Jr. Award for Innovation and Service to Community and Profession. According to the ALA, “The candidate for this award shall demonstrate leadership qualities in anticipating emerging trends in services, products and technologies that will enhance the library’s position in its community. The candidate will participate in the life of the community using membership in and volunteer service through a broad range of community organizations and projects.”
Sharing these traits and philosophies through active participation in professional activities will be a plus.”
Dr. Beckwith and the other Board members applauded her for this prestigious recognition.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
PRESENTATION ON SERVICES FOR SMALL BUSINESS
Jennifer Gibson, manager of the Reference Department, spoke about the many services that her department provides. The Department holds an annual Small Business Expo that attracts numerous entrepreneurs and aspiring entrepreneurs. The Department also has many programs specifically for women in business. Additionally, Reference employees present outreach programs at businesses throughout St. Louis County to promote library resources. Dr. Beckwith said he was pleased with the presentation.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, announced that Meramec Valley Branch opens in 4 weeks. It has a lovely children's area seen from the outside window, and a reading patio is included. Mid-County now has a transformer in place for its power source.
Pictures of the Thornhill children's garden were also shared with the Board.
BATESFORUM PRESENTATION H&G/ADMIN
Amy Luchen from Batesforum, showed the preliminary designs of the new History and Genealogy / Operations Building.
DIVERSITY REPORT
Kristen Sorth presented the annual informational Diversity Report on staff employment.
The Library Board has requested yearly information regarding the staff complement at the St. Louis County Library.  The following reports for 2018 and 2019 include the following:
	A report entitled “Summary Comparison Percentage Chart.”  This report combines the data from the “Summary” report and reflects five years of data.  It also includes FTE information for the same time frame.
	A report entitled “List of Job Titles by Dept/Branch”.  This is a report that is generated from our HR/Payroll software.  The “ethnicity” column contains descriptions designated in our software.  The report is divided by department and branch.  The departments are listed in alphabetical order beginning after Administration.  The branches are next and they are also listed in alphabetical order.  Within each branch or department employees are listed by their title only.  Employees were sorted in descending order from the employee with the highest pay grade within the branch or department to the lowest pay grade.  Individuals with the same title, have the same pay grade.
	A one page summary of the above mentioned report entitled “Summary” that is also generated from our HR/Payroll system.  This report lists the total number of employees as well as percentages.  Several of the departments are grouped together on this report by organizational unit.
	A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race.”  This document lists each title, the total number of employees with that title and then breaks down the percentage of that title by race.  The titles are sorted in descending order from the title with the highest pay grade to the title with the lowest pay grade.
	A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race and Gender.”  This report is identical to the report mentioned above in number three with the exception that gender has been added to this report.
	A report entitled “St. Louis County Library – List of New Hires by Location.”  This report includes information about the candidates selected for all positions that were posted in this time frame. The report lists the hires by department or branch. I have indicated if a branch or department had no vacancies during that time frame.
Dr. Beckwith acknowledged that strides had been made to create a more diverse district but strongly suggested there was more work to be done.  A detailed discussion of the report took place.
2018 LIBRARY AUDIT
Rick Gratza, a Partner with Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB), presented the findings of the 2018 Library Audit.
The 2018 independent Library audit was shared with the Board. The audit includes the operation of the Library Foundation. The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) has issued an unmodified opinion. An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements. This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to accept the independent audit.  Copies of the audit will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The audit will also be available on the Library’s website (Mulligan/Kenyon).
.
PARKING LOT SEAL & STRIPE
Steve Hunter presented the Administration’s recommendation for Seal & Stripe services.
On March 18, 2019, Library Administration issued an IFB for sealcoating and re-striping two branch parking lots (Grant’s View and Lewis & Clark). The bid was posted on the SLCL website and direct mailed to nine local companies, including the seven local W/MBE firms that identified as providing this service. Advertisements were placed in both the American and the Post-Dispatch. In addition, the on-line plan rooms ePlan and Dodge picked up the bid and posted it for their members. Responses were due April 3, 2019. Three firms replied.
The responses were reviewed by a selection team consisting of Steve Hunter and Matt Manwarring. Asphalt Paving & Concrete has done work for St. Louis Public Library in the past and listed them as a reference. Administration discussed the work with St. Louis Public Library and is satisfied with the referral. The team unanimously chose Asphalt Paving & Concrete as having provided the lowest and best bid.
The approved 2019 Library budget included $20,000 for this project. The work is to be completed by May 24, 2019.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation to select Asphalt Paving & Concrete to provide Seal & Stripe services to the Library District for two locations (Grant’s View and Lewis & Clark) for the amount of $15,292.00 (Cunnane/Mulligan).
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Michael Mulligan motioned to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).  All agreed with a voice vote.
The meeting adjourned at 4:54 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_________________________                                              _____________________
Chingling Tai                                                                          Date
Secretary