{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "BL3MCP5A8D40",
  "date": "2020-03-16T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 2020
3:30 p.m.
The regular meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh, St. Louis, MO 63131, Monday, March 16, 2020.   The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Laura Horwitz, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director Development; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Lisa Stump, Lashly and Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Jennifer Gibson, Kat Van Arsdale, Lauren Hoerr, E King, Heather Niell, Scott Holl, Anna Gonzalez and Sandy Williams.
Dr. Beckwith called the teleconference meeting to order with four members present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the Feb 3, 2020 minutes (Sanditz/Wang).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to appear before the Board.
At this point Joan Barry joined the meeting. The entire Library Board was now present.
Dr. Beckwith announced that he would begin the meeting with agenda items regarding COVID-19, and Health and Safety Measures in order for announcements to be posted.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MEASURES
Library Director Kristen Sorth presented the following.
The Library Administration has been monitoring the activities of our peer public libraries around the country for their response to COVID-19.  In addition, Administration is in close contact with state and local health officials.
Given current events, the St. Louis County Library is preparing for any possible scenario related to COVID-19, including taking appropriate precautions as an employer of over 670 employees that provides materials, programs and services to the public.   If there is a need to temporarily close the Library or individual branches as a result of COVID-19, the Library Director would need to quickly implement various measures.
For this reason, Library Administration is recommending that the Library Board of Trustees authorize the Director to implement health and safety measures related to the outbreak of COVID-19.
The Library Board approved the Library Administration’s recommendation to hereby authorize and direct the Director of the Library to implement any measures necessary to ensure the health and safety of employees and patrons during the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, including but not limited to: closing any or all Library facilities, modifying operating hours, and establishing temporary rules for use of Library facilities. The Library Board of Directors also directs the Director of the Library to report any measures taken to the Board of Trustees in a timely manner and at the next regular board meeting (Barry/Horwitz).
COVID-19
Library Director Kristen Sorth presented the following.
The Library Administration has been monitoring the activities of our peer public libraries around the country for their response to COVID-19.  The Library is looking at best practices in the event the Library would have an emergency closing.
Given current events, the St. Louis County Library will be prepared for any possible scenarios related to COVID-19, including taking appropriate precautions as an employer of over 670 employees. If there is a need to temporarily close the Library or individual branches as a result of COVID-19, at this time we believe it is important to provide paid leave to employees to maintain morale and assist employees during the closure.
	this reason, the Library Administration is recommending that the Library Board of Trustees hereby waives or amends its current personnel policies to permit the Library Director to provide paid leave for a period of up to 30 days to part-time employees during any period of closure, or modification of hours, or other inability of the employee to work as a result of COVID-19, in the manner determined by the Director and approved by Library legal counsel.  Paid time will be based on their regularly scheduled hours.  This paid leave will be referred to as “COVID-19 leave.” The Library currently has 263 part-time employees. At this time, full-time employees would be paid as scheduled.  The Library would reevaluate this after any closure lasting more than 30 days. The Board authorizes the Director to develop procedures to determine the work required, if any, of employees during any partial or complete closure.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s to hereby waives or amends its current personnel policies to permit the Library Director to provide paid leave for a period of up to 30 days to employees during any period of closure, or modification of hours as a result of COVID-19 in the manner determined by the Director, and approved by Library legal counsel. In addition, the Library Board authorizes the Director to develop procedures to determine the work required, if any, of employees during any partial or complete closure (Barry/Wang).
REPORTS
The regular order of business continued at this point.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Assistant Director of Administration Kris Mooney presented the Treasurer’s Report.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenues
	Miscellaneous Income — In February, the Library District received $20,577 in proceeds from the sale of three Library vehicles by Enterprise Fleet Management (EFM). At the November 2018 Board meeting the Library Board approved shifting from Library owned vehicles to leased vehicles from EFM. As the Library District converts current vehicles to leased vehicles, EFM will sell the vehicle and give the proceeds to the Library District, minus a small commission.
Expenses
	Collection Maintenance Software — The Library District renewed the annual software maintenance with the Integrated Library System vendor, Innovative Interfaces Incorporated at a cost of $291,233.
Expenses
	Building Repair — HVAC — The Library District paid $6,127 to Corrigan Company for a compressor replacement at the Daniel Boone Branch.
	Building Operations — Snow Removal — In February, BSR Services Inc. was paid a total of $57,982 for ice and snow removal services for several snow events occuring on January 11, 13, 16-18, 22-24, and 28-30, 2020.
	Capital Improvements — In February, the Library District paid $18,375 to Landmark, $18,600 to the City of Eureka for permits, and $30,825 to Arcturis for architect fees related to the Eureka Hills Branch construction.
Capital Proiects Fund Financial Statements
	Balance Sheet — 2016 Debt Issuance
	Construction in Progress — Total Construction in Progress for February 2020 was $84,328. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Mid County— $29,510
		Construction costs for Daniel Boone — $23,011
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator — $11 ,255
		Construction costs for Thornhill — $8,902
The Library Board approved of the March Treasurer's Report for January and February 2020 subject to audit (Wang/Horwitz).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Director Kristen Sorth delivered the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the spread of COVID-19 is impacting many areas of our daily lives, and that includes the St. Louis County Library.  She said she continues to closely monitor the experiences of our peer libraries around the United States. In addition, we remain in close contact with state and local health officials.  Last week, we made the decision to cancel all programs, outreach events and community meetings until March 30th. She said the Library will reevaluate the situation to determine if the time should be extended. In addition, she has been asked to participate in a meeting next week with other community leaders to discuss the impact on socially isolated and underserved populations in the region.  She said the Library’s goal will be to mobilize the community to support our residents. In particular, the organizers are looking to libraries for solutions. With the threat of community spread and the emphasis on social distancing, there is a strong possibility that the Library District will close in the near future.  There are still resources available to patrons online during closures. To that end, we are actively working on a list of services that we can provide during closure. We also want to support our employees to the extent it is possible during a closure. The Library Board will review a recommendation regarding that later in the meeting.
	She said the Dashboard contains a variety of statistical information for the Library. The report was shared. The report includes information about circulation, visits, programming and PC usage.  Circulation for February increased 2.5% over the same time last year.  Visits were up by 6%, and program attendance was up by 11%. Information about the Winter Reading Club is also included.  The Club ended on January 31. The Library had 23,747 patrons register for the club with a completion rate of 87%. This month, the Dashboard contains information about new cardholders by age. We added 2,555 new cardholders in the month of February. The top titles by circulation are also listed.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Black History Committee, which includes Brenda West Ammons, Cindy Fehmel, Robert Hall, Janelle Turner, Crystal Harris, Carla Maxwell, Nakisha Ford and Sandy Williams, did a fantastic job with Black History Month programming.
	Last year, the Library offered a St. Louis Cardinals library card during the month of September.  We are currently working with the Cardinals to expand a card offering during the baseball season.  We will partner with the St. Louis Public Library on this. (Plan: Maximize Access 3.1)
	The Library has comfort kits available at every branch for patrons that are experiencing homelessness, or who are in transition. We are partnering with a local nonprofit, Helping Hand-Me-Downs, to provide these kits. We recently provided training for Library employees that discussed working with the homeless population. The training emphasized that socks are the greatest need. The Library reached out to Helping Hand-Me-Downs to discuss the addition of socks to the kits. They agreed to provide socks for all of our current and future stock of comfort kits. (Plan: Sense of Community 3.2)
	The Library is seeking original music by local musicians to stream on our website as part of the Listen Up STL collection. Patrons are introduced to talented local musicians through this program, which offers local music for streaming.  Submissions will be accepted from March 1-31. The Listen Up STL collection features over 120 albums by local musicians representing a variety of genres including rock, jazz, blues, gospel and country. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library did plan to celebrate Women’s History Month with special programming throughout March, including book and film discussions, art programs, historical lectures and more. We will emphasize our online resources as an alternative and discuss future programming opportunities. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.3 and Maximize Access 2.4)
	The application is now available for the Library’s summer internship program, which was named in honor of former Lewis & Clark employee Sidney Johnson. This is the second year that the Library will offer a paid 10-week summer internship for teens between the ages of 16 -18. Our goal is to introduce students to the profession of Library and Information Science. Applications will be accepted through March 31. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	She said the Library will continue to encourage participation in the 2020 Census this spring.  Multiple branches are hosting Census 2020 information sessions, library staff plans to attend community outreach events in hard-to-count areas, and the Library’s computer labs will be available during select times for individuals to complete the Census online. In total, over 100 Census 2020 programs will be offered. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library will once again partner with Eye Thrive and its Mobile Vision Clinic to offer vision screenings and eye exams to children age 4-grade 12. Children requiring glasses will have them made on site in less than one hour. All services are free of charge to the patrons, and made possible in part through the generous support from the Library Foundation. The partnership will be expanded to include seven locations--Weber Road, Rock Road, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, and Florissant Valley branches. The services will be provided Wednesday-Friday at each location for one week during June and July. In 2019, 230 children were issued glasses. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library has been invited to participate in the Entrepreneurship in Libraries Program evaluation. The program, organized by the Urban Libraries Council, will be led by an outside organization with funding from the Kauffman Foundation. The evaluation will help to identify opportunities for libraries to impact local entrepreneurs, capture the potential of libraries to facilitate entrepreneurship programs, and document lessons learned to share with the field. Three other library districts have been asked:  Austin Public, Baltimore County/Enoch Pratt and King County. (Promote Literacy 3.2)
	To increase awareness and accessibility of LGBTQ+ titles in the Library’s collection, cataloging will add an indexed series field to items in our collection with LGBTQ+ subject headings.  Patrons will be able to find titles in the catalog by searching for the keyword or title LGBTQ+.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1)
	The Library will celebrate National Library Week by accepting canned goods in payment of overdue fines from Sunday, April 19, 2020, through Saturday, April 25, 2020. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles were shared. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	She said there are a number of great photos to show the Board from several programs and events in January and February.  However, due to the teleconference, they will be viewed later. These include: Authors Nicholas Kristof & Sheryl WuDunn at HQ, Baby Boot Camp at Daniel Boone, Traditional Chinese Folk Music at Thornhill, ACT Prep Class at Weber Road, Craftability at Daniel Boone and Author Diane Rehm at HQ. Also featured is Black History Month programming including: Authors Joseph (Rev Run) & Justine Simmons at HQ, The Black REP at Lewis and Clark, Author Valerie Jarrett at HQ, African Bead Bracelets at Oak Bend, Black Superhero Fest at Natural Bridge and Set the Night to Music at Florissant Valley. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3 and Maximize Access 1.4)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library will be implementing a program for employees to receive notifications via text messages on their mobile phone. The notifications will be for weather-related closings, delays and other pertinent information.
	Kris Mooney, Mary Arnhart and I met with Lockton, the Library HR Consultant. Lockton will be reviewing and making recommendations for the Library’s performance management process, as well as reviewing the salary structure for the Library.
	The Library’s first Staff Development Cohort will end this month with a lunch with Library Administration and a presentation by Wally Siewert from Focus St. Louis. The Cohort will also present on their experiences over the last year. We plan to start recruiting for the next cohort in the next month. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation will host a shredding event on March 28.  Several trucks with shredding capabilities will be located on the parking lot at HQ. The public may bring in items to shred at the cost of $5 a box. All proceeds will be donated to the Foundation.
	We were recently notified of the following grant award:
		Technology Mini-Grant, $7,665 for updated iPads for Youth Services
Author Events for April (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
The remaining March author events have been cancelled. We will reevaluate the events for April in the next few weeks.
	Ariel Lawhon, author of “Code Name Helene,” Wednesday, April 1, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Edward J. Larson, author of “Franklin & Washington,” Wednesday, April 8, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Sherri Duskey Rinker, author of “How to Put an Octopus to Bed,” Thursday, April 9, 2020, 6:30 p.m., Headquarters.
	Ed Wheatley, author of “Baseball in St. Louis: From Little Leagues to Major Leagues,” Tuesday, April 14, 2020 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Julia Phillips, author of “Disappearing Earth,” Thursday, April 16, 2020 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Ticketed Event–Steve Murphy and Javier Peña, authors of “Manhunters,” Saturday, April 18, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. Presented in partnership with DEA St. Louis Division.
	Don Winslow, author of “Broken,” Monday, April 20, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
MODOT EASEMENT REQUEST AT ROCK ROAD
Assistant Director of Operations, Steve Hunter presented.
MODOT is planning road and sidewalk improvements near the Rock Road Branch. The planned enhancements along Route 180 (St. Charles Rock Road) are scheduled to begin in summer 2021, and completed by the end of 2022. MODOT is requesting temporary construction easements from the Library District for the work.
The District owns two parcels of land along Route 180. An aerial image is attached.
MODOT has submitted two separate easement requests, one for each parcel. These are attached.
A temporary construction easement gives the grantee the right to access the property in order to conduct the work. The easement will terminate at the end of the project. Ownership of the property remains with the District.
MODOT is offering a total of $1,000 in compensation for the two easements. Administration has thoroughly reviewed their offer and agrees it is fair. Construction activities should cause no disruption to regular library service at the branch.
The Library Board approves the Administration recommendation to authorize the Director to execute the two temporary easement agreements with MODOT related to proposed road and sidewalk improvements along St. Charles Rock Road (Sanditz/Barry).
PARKING LOT SEAL AND STRIPE
Assistant Director of Operations, Steve Hunter presented.
On February 18, 2020, Library Administration issued an IFB for sealcoating and restriping four branch parking lots (Headquarters, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Samuel Sachs). The bid was posted on the SLCL website and directly mailed to eleven local companies, including the seven local W/MBE firms that identified as providing this service. An advertisement was placed in the Post-Dispatch. Responses were due March 4, 2020. Three firms replied:
			Company
			Base Bid
			Parking Lot Picassos, LLC
			$20,195
			Asphalt Paving & Concrete, Inc.
			$27,168
			Parking Lot Maintenance
			$27,949
The responses were reviewed by a selection team consisting of Steve Hunter, Steve Hibbler, and Matt Manwarring. Parking Lot Picassos has done work for the District in the past, and the Administration has been satisfied with their work.
The approved 2020 Library budget included $40,000 for this project. The work is to be completed by early summer.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation  that the Library Board select Parking Lot Picassos to provide Seal & Stripe services to the Library District at four locations for the amount of $20,195 (Wang/Horwitz).
INSURANCE RENEWALS
Assistant Director of Administration, Kris Mooney presented.
All lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on April 1.  The District received notice from the current carrier, The Hartford Company, to expect premiums to increase approximately 25% in this upcoming renewal period, due to a significant increase in weather-related claims across the nation. Due to the potential increase, the Daniel and Henry Company (D&H), the Library’s broker for these services, marketed the Library District’s account to several carriers.
Attached, please find a summary of the April 1, 2020 renewal quote from this year compared to prior year’s cost. Seven carriers were asked to bid on the District’s property insurance and four carriers returned a bid. Three of the four had significant increases ranging from 11% – 35%, largely due to increased premiums for weather-related claims across the country. The Hanover Insurance Group came in as the lowest bid, with a 6% decrease in cost from the prior year. Hanover is a large national insurer that has not adopted the policies of other national insurers when it comes to weather-related claims.
Total cost to the Library District for continuing coverage of property insurance, workers compensation, and other miscellaneous coverages will be $417,501, compared to $435,553 from last year, a decrease of 4.1%. The Library District budgeted a 10% increase for the 2020 year. In addition to reductions in the property insurance described above, The Hanover Insurance Group also gave a reduction in worker’s compensation insurance of 6.2%. The District retained the same carrier for all other lines of insurance that either stayed the same, or slightly increased in cost (see attached summary). The Pension Plan pays for the Fiduciary coverage, which will be $8,710 in 2020 compared to $8,385 in 2019.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation in consultation with The Daniel and Henry Company to accept the quotes from the insurance carriers, which includes The Hanover Insurance Group, Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Ace American Insurance Company, and One Beacon Insurance Group, for a total cost of $417,501 (Wang/Barry).
CREDIT CARD POLICY
Assistant Director of Administration Kris Mooney presented.
The Library Board of Trustees approved the original credit card policy at the September 2017 meeting. The credit card policy governs the use of Library-issued credit cards. Library Administration has modified the credit card policy to add rules that will govern the use of a fuel card program for the Library’s vehicle fleet. The Library’s underground fuel tanks are approaching end-of-life and are experiencing issues related to age. The District plans to discontinue use of the tanks, and implement procedures for fuel cards to be used as the sole method of fueling the vehicle fleet. This precipitates the procedures for the move to the new facility in Frontenac. That site will have no fueling capabilities. The attached Policy was drafted with assistance by Lashly & Baer.
In summary, the addition to the policy states that fuel cards will be used for Library purposes only. In addition, controls will be implemented to reduce the risk of misuse. Each employee will have their own pin number, and will input that number and the vehicle mileage in order for the card to be used. Additionally, the cards can only be used for purchases at the pump, to fuel a vehicle once per day, and during normal Library business hours. Prior to issuance, each employee must sign an acknowledgement that they have read, understand, and agree to be bound to the terms of this Policy.
The Library Board approved of the Administration’s recommendation to approve of the additional policy pertaining to the use of fuel cards to the Credit Card Policy (Barry/Sanditz).
WIDE AREA NETWORK SERVICES RFP
Assistant Director of ITS Gib Van Cleve presented.
The Library Administration is seeking approval of a new five-year contract for Wide Area Network Services (WAN).  Our current contract with Spectrum Enterprise expires on June 30, 2020. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for Wide Area Network Services to solicit competitive bids, as required by E-Rate. Lashly & Baer was involved in this process. On February 3, the RFP was posted on the Library’s website, the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website and advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
The WAN is the data communications backbone for the Library District. It provides data connectivity for the circulation desk PCs, public access PCs, staff PCs, phone system, security cameras and security gates to name a few.  Our current WAN configuration consists of 21 individual fiber optic circuits of varying speeds (500 Mbps to 4 Gbps). The WAN RFP sought proposals that maintain, or increase the data throughput for each circuit, while keeping the multi-point network functionality that allows the Library to move the network backbone from HQ to the colocation site in the event of a disaster scenario.
The RFP responses were due March 2, 2020. We received three responses. They were reviewed by a team of Library employees, including Erin Dominguez, Kris Mooney and myself.  Cytranet and AT&T were more expensive than Spectrum Enterprise.
			Vendor Proposals
			1 Year
			5 Years
			Cytranet
			 $         454,368
			 $  2,271,840
			AT&T
			 $         215,109
			 $  1,075,545
			Spectrum Enterprise
			 $         123,372
			 $      616,860
Spectrum’s price was 57% less than AT&T. By entering into a new contract with Spectrum Enterprise, the Library will reduce its current cumulative WAN circuit costs by 39%, and increase circuit speeds by 2X or greater (1 Gbps to 10 Gbps).  This equates to a savings of $241,623 over the next five years.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for a five-year contract for Wide Area Network Services with Spectrum Enterprise, at the cost of $123,372 per year, which will increase throughput and maintain multi-point functionality, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 40% would reduce this amount to $74,023 per year. WAN services are included in the 2020 Telecommunications budget (Horwitz/Wang).
NAMING RIGHTS REQUEST
Director Kristen Sorth presented the following.
Emerson approved a grant of $50,000 to the St. Louis County Library Foundation for naming rights in support of the expanded teen space at the Natural Bridge Branch.  The St. Louis County Library Foundation believes it is fitting and well-deserved that the area at the Natural Bridge Branch be named in honor of Emerson.  The area will be named: The Emerson Teen Center.
The St. Louis County Library Foundation Board approved the naming recommendation on February 20, 2020. The Library Board of Trustees, per its naming policy, makes all final decisions on naming rights for the Library buildings, rooms or features. The policy states that spaces may be named in recognition of individuals or groups who have made a significant financial or other contribution that advances the mission of the Library to serve its community.  The full policy is attached. The Library Administration and the Library Foundation recommend approval of the naming of the Teen Space at the Natural Bridge Branch in honor of Emerson. The area will be named: The Emerson Teen Center (Barry/Wang).
ADJOURNMENT
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); and to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)) (Wang/Barry).
The meeting adjourned at 4:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_______________________                                                              ________________
Laura Horwitz, Secretary                                                                               Date