{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "BL3MMV5B0637",
  "date": "2020-10-19T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD via ZOOM
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2020
 3:30 p.m.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present:
Lynn Beckwith, Ed.D., President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Member
Laura Horwitz, Secretary
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING: Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Administration; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; and Lisa Stump, Lashly and Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING: Sandra Williams, Executive Assistant; Jennifer Gibson, Reference Manager, and Angela Brooks, Small Business Employee Relations Coordinator.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 28, 2020 minutes (Wang/Sanditz).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Sandra Williams, Executive Assistant, read forty-four letters from the following patrons:  Mary Kauffman, Annie Johnston, Maddy Moore, Liam Gibbs, Katy Beth Doman, Kellie Landaker, Kitty Meowehan, flooding pansexual, M. Ptry, Hannah Milbourn, Ingrid Conley-Abrams, Toni Dang, Josiah Gundersen, Mary Keane, Geneva Lee, Kelly Olson, Michelle Chicoineau, Chloe Horsma, Solidarity – Nisveta, Ghianna Mathias, Ziggy, Jessica Yu, Ella Alonso, Carly Drain, Tara Dolan, Kellie Willis, Zoe Krause, Ditiya Ferdous, Amy Louvter, Sheila Siemer, Lindsay Lutzk, Sara Schipkowski, Sierra Revels, Sunrise St. Louis, Grace Tedder, Jim Del Rosso, Ann Louis Schmitt, Haley Zink, Janet Christmas, J Woo, Erica Holmes, Yara Chengyit-Levin, Jamie Moffa and Hannah Gibbons.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Chief Financial Officer Laura Taylor presented the Treasurer's report.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenues
	District Taxes – In September, the Library District received tax revenue in the amount of $182,877.  The Library has received $54.7 million in tax revenue year-to-date, which is 99.6% of the 2020 revised budgeted amount of $55 million.
	State Grants – In September, the Library District received a $3,833 grant payment as payment 2 of 2 of a Technology Mini-Grant.  The grant was used for the purchase of 20 iPads for Youth Services programming.
Expenses
	CARES Act Grant – In September, the Library District invested $90,000 in Tutor.com virtual tutoring services for students and cardholders in St. Louis County.  This purchase was funded through the CARES Act as part of the Digital Equity Initiative. The Library District has already seen St. Louis County cardholders engage in over 400 tutoring sessions.
· Custodial Services – In September, the Library District incurred $44,747 in Custodial Services expenses.  Notable expenses are as follows:
o $19,710 for September branch cleaning services – Buildingstars Operations Inc.
o $12,511 for system wide carpet cleaning and COVID cleaning at Mid-County – Woodard Cleaning & Restoration
o $2,220 for July & August branch pest control – Terminix International
Capital Projects Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet – 2016 Debt Issuance
	Construction in Progress – Total Construction in Progress for September 2020 was $13,375.  The expense was for the Facilities Master Plan Administrator payment.
The Library Board approved the October Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Joan Barry, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Laura Horwitz
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth wished Dr. Beckwith a happy birthday. The Board followed with well wishes. Ms. Sorth showed slides from activities that have taken place across the district since closing in March. Pictures including the delivery of hotspots, curbside service, COVID testing and food and diaper distribution.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for September with the Board.  Total circulation for September 2020 was 43% lower than September 2019.  eMedia circulation in contrast was 33% higher than eMedia circulation in September 2019.   30% of the Library’s total circulation in September came from eMedia.  Curbside bundles, which she mentioned last month, are very popular.  The branches and HQ have distributed 5,091 curbside bundles.  The Dashboard also contains a breakdown by author.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1)
	She said the Library is partnering with the Miriam Learning Center to offer in-person and virtual tutoring services to unique learners from October 12 - December 15. The tutoring services are made available at no cost to students with special needs whose household income qualifies them for the program. Tutoring sessions are offered at Headquarters, Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, and Rock Road branches. Sessions are also offered at two Miriam locations.  Financial support for the program comes from the $4 million in CARES Act funds that were distributed to the Library by St. Louis County.  The Library Board will review additional information about that agreement as it relates to the Miriam Learning Center later in the meeting.  Since announcing the partnership last week, Miriam has been busy scheduling tutoring sessions.  They have only 240 more hours to schedule out of the 1400 that were allocated.  Families are so appreciative of the partnership. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	As mentioned last month, she said the Library was awarded a $75,000 grant from PNC to fund the purchase of 115 hotspot and Chromebook kits that will be checked out for public use at Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Indian Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Prairie Commons, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Rock Road and Weber Road. Distribution of the kits will begin in the next week and will help meet the need for public computing access particularly while the library remains closed. Thirty-five of the kits will remain at the assigned branch for immediate patron checkout.  The other 80 units will be holdable and float throughout the district. The kits can be checked out on adult cards only for 14 days.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	She said Bookmobile staff are developing a service model that will be piloted on a smaller scale at a few schools. The model will involve taking a bookmobile trailer to select schools and offering library services outside of the bookmobile. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.2)
	Adult Services continues to offer a variety of virtual programs.  The department went from hosting twenty virtual programs in August to thirty-four virtual programs in September with attendance increasing over 50% during that time.  Adult Services is planning and hosting over 50 programs in October and are also celebrating several attendance records:  301 people attended the spooky Virtual Program: Spirits of the Central Corridor presented by Monster Paranormal and over 600 people registered for the Virtual Program: Forest Park Owls Hiding in Plain Sight on Thursday, October 15. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4)
	In September and October, four more COHS students graduated from the program. One of our recent graduates received a new job as a Patient Care Technician at an area hospital immediately after finishing the program. The position required a high school diploma, which she now has thanks to COHS. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.2)
	Ms. Sorth said Preparations for the Teen Book Festival are underway. The festival will be held virtually and will take place over the first two weeks of December. We are thrilled to announce that we have 27 teen authors confirmed to participate and are waiting on a few more confirmations. The events will include solo author interviews and panel discussions with science fiction, fantasy and thriller writers, and on topics such as body image and diversity in young adult literature. The library is partnering with HEC-TV and the official book seller will be The Novel Neighbor. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	She said on Saturday, September 26, our employees gave out over 3,500 books during curbside hours as part of the Little Reader’s Festival. Free books were given to families with children ages 0-5. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	As mentioned previously, Ms. Sorth said the Library received a grant from the Dana Brown Foundation to fund a second hotspot lending pilot at Riverview Gardens and/or Normandy school districts.  This grant was approved prior to COVID and was based on the model that we had with the Ritenour School District pilot that was funded by Emerson.  Riverview Gardens has expressed interest and will receive 83 hotspots toward the end of this month.  The hotspots will be loaned by the Library to the School District and will be assigned to individual students. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3)
	The History and Genealogy Department has created online content to help family history researchers. Their Video Tutorials page features short instructional videos on the most common questions such as: How to get started researching your family history, finding genealogical records, and their most popular video with over 160 views Introduction to Ancestry Library Edition. These videos not only reach area residents but are already helping nationwide. They are also hosting virtual expos in November and December. Attendees will be able to connect to organizations that can help them discover the history of their family and community. Representatives of St. Louis-area organizations will give presentations followed by question and answer sessions. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4)
	She said with a new distribution of St. Louis County CARES Act money, Operation Food Search will again be able to provide us with produce and additional shelf stable “Family Meals” to distribute to patrons through drive-thru meals. The Family Meals will be distributed on Fridays beginning 10/16, and produce boxes will be distributed on Wednesdays beginning 10/21. OFS anticipates being able to provide this additional food to families through our drive-thru meals until December 30th, 2020.  In addition, Operation Food Search will provide two volunteers to assist with meal distribution every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.  She mentioned last month that we are very close to distributing 1 million meals since the end of March.  Operation Food Search and the Library plan to announce this milestone at the same time we promote the addition of produce boxes and family meal kits. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library will be offering notary services at HQ, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons and Weber Road during curbside hours from October 17 – October 31. The notaries are volunteers coordinated through the Jewish Community Relations Council of St. Louis and the National Council of Jewish Women, St. Louis.  Additional dates for notary services have been set up at two additional branches and will be provided by volunteers from Voters Helping Voters. Jamestown Bluffs and Lewis & Clark will offer notary services on the following schedule:
		Jamestown Bluffs---October 13, 20, 27 1-3 p.m.
		Lewis & Clark---October 15, 22, 29 1-3 p.m.
In addition, the Mid-County Branch will serve as an absentee voting site and a mail-in drop off site for the St. Louis County Board of Elections from October 22 – November 1: 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., October 24 and October 31: 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. and November 2: 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.  Fifteen branches will serve as polling sites on November 3.  Branches serving as polling sites will not offer curbside service on November 3 per Library Board approval.  Based on a patron suggestion, a webpage with links and helpful information about the upcoming election has been added to the website. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1 and Promote Literacy 2.4)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will resume the partnership with the St. Louis Alliance for Period Supplies.  Period supply kits will be available upon request via curbside at Florissant Valley and Lewis & Clark through the end of the year.  These are the same branches that also offer emergency diapers through the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	As mentioned previously, she said the Library has been closely following the results of a study that examines the length of time the COVID-19 virus can live on library materials.  Shortly after the release of Study 4 of the REALM project, we took a precautionary step to move to a 7-day quarantine period. We felt it was best to err on the side of caution until we could further analyze the results and research and incorporate other expert opinions. Now that some time has passed and we have obtained outside opinions and collected research and best practices from other libraries, we reverted back to a 96-hour quarantine period for returned materials. (Plan: Maximize Access: 2.4)
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of September 24.  We are so thankful to the many community partners who have reached out to us to provide additional items to be distributed through our drive-thru meal sites.    (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library is partnering with St. Louis County Courts and a number of other organizations whose mission and work centers around supporting the needs of justice-involved individuals. During the pandemic, court access and court proceedings have been dramatically disrupted. Individuals with court-related business face challenging and ever-changing obstacles to resolving these matters. This partnership allows people to “tap back into the system,” and resolve matters in a conveniently located and trusted place. The Florissant Valley Branch began hosting the tap-in center (TIC) on September 22.  The three weeks of the soft launch have been very successful.  A larger outreach and promotional effort began last week.  The TIC is operated by a number of staff from the County Courts, including people from the Public Defender's office and the County Prosecutor’s office. Some services and consultation will be offered in-person, and other services will be offered via Zoom. In addition to seeking assistance and direction for resolving issues pertaining to their pending cases, these individuals will also be provided with access or referrals to social services that help meet needs in their lives.  This portion will be facilitated by the Bail Project. Library staff will be present during the TIC hours, and they will be available to assist with library services. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	The St. Louis County Department of Public Health reached out about having health educators set up tables outside several branches to provide “Care Kits” that will include COVID related information and supplies.  The outreach started this week and will take place during the month of October.  Here is the schedule:
		October 12: Bridgeton Trails
		October 14: Florissant Valley
		October 16: Indian Trails
		October 19: Jamestown Bluffs
		October 21: Lewis & Clark
		October 23: Natural Bridge
		October 26: Prairie Commons
		October 28: Rock Road
		October 30: Weber Road
(Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth said the Administration decided to bring back the slideshow of Library programs.  Here are pictures from various events that have taken place over the last two months including: Wifi Hotspot Distribution, Drive Thru COVID-19 Testing, Drive Thru Meals, Eye Thrive Mobile Vision Clinic, Curbside Service, Diaper Distribution, Face Mask Distribution, Free Book & Activity Kit Distribution. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.1)
Library Administrative Updates
	Tarza Tawfiq, the Library’s new Employee Relations Coordinator, hosted five town hall meetings during the week of October 5th with almost 100 employees attending.  Topics included reimagining public safety at the Library, staff engagement and a discussion about what reopening might look like.  Information gathered at the town halls was very helpful and we appreciate the feedback from employees.  Tarza also kicked off a Fall into Fitness Walking Challenge for Library employees.  Employees, branches and departments are engaged in a friendly competition to see who walks the most.  There are two levels - Level 1 is for the individual.  Branch and department employees can compete with each other for an individual prize.  Level 2 is a system-wide challenge between branch and departments for a group prize. Also, the Co-Lib Chronicle which is the internal employee newsletter will be back in November.  The newsletter has not been published since the sudden death of Julie Cruise.  Tarza will be spearheading the new monthly newsletter and the first edition will be dedicated entirely to Julie.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	Last week, all managers received a survey asking for their input on reopening.  Employees will also receive a survey on the same topic next week.  Our goal is to collect input and start preparing with plenty of time and consideration.  We are also reviewing and updating our COVID safety protocols with input from the County Health Department and the CDC. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	As mentioned previously, Administration has been working with Lockton, the Library’s HR Consultant, on a complete revision to the performance management process and salary structure.  The salary structure will be discussed in the 2021 Library Budget.  The performance management form and process redesign is complete with a suggested format from Lockton created with input gathered from managers and employees.  Managers will begin the performance evaluation process later this month.
	Ms. Sorth said she has been asked to serve on the Diversion Advisory Committee that is convened by St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney, Wesley Bell.  She said she attended her first meeting last week and was very happy to represent the Library on this committee.  They are working on a new approach towards non-violent offenders who struggle with mental illness or substance abuse by directing people away from incarceration and into treatment programs and services. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library Board approved both the tax rates and removing the voluntary rollback at the Board Meeting in September. As required, Laura Taylor sent the Resolution authorizing the voluntary rollback to the State Auditor on Tuesday. We received the ProForma from the State Auditor with the certified rates and learned that the rollback must be removed in all categories. Some of the rollbacks go back to 2008.  The final 2021 revenue, based on the certified rates from the State Auditor, is $58,824,297. This change has been noted as an attachment to the September Board Meeting minutes.
Library Construction and Facility Updates
	Planning for the new Administrative Building continues.  Ms. Sorth said she presented plans to the Frontenac Board of Aldermen on September 29, and they were unanimously approved.  We are now waiting on permits and then construction can begin.  The contract with the general contractor, ICS, has been signed and a kick-off meeting is scheduled for this week. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation Board approved the Shared Services agreement at their October Meeting.  The Agreement will be presented to the Library Board at the November Board Meeting.  The Shared Services Agreement defines the level of support provided by the Library to the Foundation and is a requirement of the Affiliation Agreement between the Library and the Foundation.
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
The Library has Livestream author events and recordings with the following authors. They are posted on our website as well as the HEC Facebook link - facebook.com/hectv and then archived at hecmedia.org. We are promoting on our social media and sending eblasts that direct patrons to the HEC sites.
	Laila Lalami, author of "Conditional Citizens: On Belonging in America," Video premiere: Monday, October 19, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
	Interview moderated by Anna Crosslin, President & CEO for the International Institute of St. Louis
	Reid Forgrave, author of "Love, Zac: Small-Town Football and the Life and Death of an American Boy," Video premiere: Wednesday, October 21, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
	Connor Towne O’Neill, author of "Down Along With That Devil’s Bones: A Reckoning with Memory, Monuments, and the Legacy of White Supremacy," Video premiere: Thursday, October 29, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
	Katie J. Moon, author of "Groundbreakers, Rule-Breakers & Rebels: 50 Unstoppable St. Louis Women," Video premiere: Thursday, November 5, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
	Rick Bragg, author of "Where I Come From: Stories of the Deep South," Video premiere: Monday, November 9, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
	Peter Cozzens, author of "Tecumseh and the Prophet: The Shawnee Brothers Who Defied a Nation, " Video premiere: Thursday, November 12, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/hectv
Laura Horwitz asked about the contents of one of the letters and a discussion ensued. Ms. Sorth stated that discussions and town hall meetings making suggestions about various employee topics has been taking place.
OLD BUSINESS
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, said we are half way through the Eureka Hills building project. The daily construction is going very well. In addition, the Library construction on Spoede Road will soon start.  Permits are anticipated to be released shortly. Mr. Hunter showed pictures of Eureka Hills in progress.  There were renderings of the new Administration Building shown as well.
Mr. Hunter reported that the main fire suppression line at HQ needed extensive repair after a major break in the line and the building had to close on Friday. The line is being repaired and hopefully will reopen Wednesday, Oct. 21, 2020.
SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES AT THE LIBRARY
Ms. Sorth introduced Jennifer Gibson, Manager of Reference and Angela Brooks, Small Business Employee Relations Coordinator. Ms. Gibson introduced Ms. Brooks and discussed the many benefits offered by the Small Business Services that is part of the Reference Department. She stated that an entrepreneur can save $13k a year through utilizing the library for their research. They have developed a calculator to show what can be saved and the classes that are offered to educators, older adults and business persons.
Ms. Brooks said group classes are taught through Small Business Services. They also assist with credit reports and offer other expertise. Book a librarian is greatly used and there have been 250 requests for this service since the library closed.
Highlights for the Department have included a nonprofit expo and women's networking lunch. They also discussed the very popular Etsy Craft Entrepreneurship Program. St Louis County Library is part of an 11-member cohort in the ULC called Strengthening Libraries as Entrepreneurial Hubs. Reference anticipates having a Small Business Center in the new Ladue building.
CITY OF CHESTERFIELD RESOLUTION
Kristen Sorth reported that The City of Chesterfield, Missouri has contracted to purchase land near the Library’s Samuel C. Sachs Branch from Central Park Square, Inc.  As part of the City’s due diligence, a title commitment was sought.  The title report revealed certain defects in the title related to a subdivision indenture that was established in 1976 and was amended as part of the original land donation to the Library in 2000.  Further research into the removal of the title defect revealed that the Library and the YMCA are still subject to subdivision indentures.  The City of Chesterfield wishes to clear the title issues associated with the subdivision indenture and has prepared an Amendment to do so.
We have reviewed the attached documentation with our legal counsel at Lashly and Baer and have no concerns with the Amendment and Termination of the Indenture.  The attached resolution gives the Director and CEO the authority to sign the Assent to Termination of the Indenture of Covenants and Restrictions for Central Park Square.
The Library Board approved the resolution authorizing the Director and CEO to sign the Assent to Termination of the Indenture of Covenants and Restrictions for Central Park Square (Sanditz/Wang).
CARES ACT RATIFICATION
The Library Administration is seeking ratification of the Second Amendment to the Funding Agreement for the St. Louis County COVID-19 Digital Equity Initiative. The Digital Equity Initiative is a multi-faceted project through which St. Louis County Library, as the recipient of $4 million of CARES Act funds received from St. Louis County, will provide resources to school districts and private, parochial, and independent schools in St. Louis County, to achieve greater equity and access for students who are engaging in remote learning during the 2020-2021 school year.  These resources include hotspots, Chromebooks and access to Tutor.com, an online live, one-on-one, subject specific tutoring program for students ranging from kindergarten through high school.   Tutor.com has been purchased and is in use by Library cardholders.  Almost 10,000 hotspots have been procured, processed and distributed to schools and school districts.  All requests for hotspots were fulfilled.  Also, we have placed orders for 5,700 Chromebooks, which is more than what was originally budgeted for due to cost savings on the cost of each hotspot.  We are anxiously awaiting their delivery.
The attached Second Amendment and corresponding exhibit expands use of the funds for the Digital Equity Initiative for tutoring services to include in-person tutoring for students with special needs.  The Miriam Learning Center is a leading expert in the St. Louis area for children with learning disabilities due to cognitive, medical and social/emotional issues.  The pandemic has created additional barriers for students with special needs who may learn very little without face-to-face or specialized instruction.    The Miriam Learning Center will provide tutoring to St. Louis County residents, age 3 through college, who are unique learners and who meet Miriam’s needs-based income guidelines.  Tutoring will take place at five Library locations:  Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, HQ and Rock Road and is also available at two Miriam School locations.
Library Administration recommends the Library Board ratify, authorize and otherwise approve the Second Amendment to the Funding Agreement for St. Louis County COVID-19 Digital Equity Initiative that was executed by the Director and CEO on October 2, 2020. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Horwitz/Wang).
KERBER, ECK, AND BRAECKEL CONTRACT
Laura Taylor reported that the Library’s contract with Kerber, Eck, and Braeckel (KEB), the Library’s audit firm, expired with the completion of the 2019 audit. Library administration is recommending the approval of a new three-year contract with KEB. The proposed engagement letters for the Library District and the Library District’s Pension Plan are attached.
Audit fees incurred in 2019 for the Library audit and Pension audit were $27,320 and $11,305 respectively.
Library Administration is recommending approval by the Library Board of a 3-year contract with audit firm Kerber, Eck, and Braeckel, for audit services related to the Library District and the Library District’s Pension Plan for years ending 2020 – 2022 and authorizes the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. Fees proposed for those years are as follows:
Library District                                   Library District Pension Plan
2020                    $28,000                                                           $11,750
2021                    $28,000                                                           $11,750
2022                    $28,000                                                           $11,750
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Horwitz).
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wang made a motion to adjourn and Mr. Sanditz seconded. All gave voice approval. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Laura Horwitz, Joan Barry, and Johnny Wang.
The meeting ended at 5:07 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
__________________________                                            _______________________
Laura Horwitz                                                                        Date
Board Secretary