{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "BL3MBN5A79E8",
  "date": "2020-02-03T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2020
3:30 p.m.
The regular meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at the Headquarters Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh, St. Louis, MO 63131, Monday, February 3, 2020.   The agenda was posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Laura Horwitz, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Director; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director Development; Kris Mooney, Assistant Director, Administration; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Chris Struckhoff, St. Louis County resident; Paul Hampel, St. Louis County; Jackie Palmer, concerned citizen; Lisa Stump, Lashly and Baer.
OTHER ATTENDING:
Jennifer Alexander, Lisa Haddox, Tracy Fletcher, Rebecca Clark, Allison Wisniewski, Paul Bayless, Julie Cruise, Skylar Stanley, Terra Baca, Barb Reale, Stephanie Nordmann, Nicole Clawson, Emily Althoff, Lorraine Budke, Sarah Brown, Anna Schurk, Jackie Hamilton, Heather Neill, Andrea Johnson, Jennifer McBride, Conrad Rader, Deanna Davis, Lori Boschert, Erin Pearce, Katie Keeven, Mary Arnhart, Kat Van Arsdale, E King, Chris Goodman, Kelli Reeves, Kathy Muller, Jennifer Gibson, Gina Sheridan, Laura Kasak, Jake Eubanks, Michelle Hawkins, Carla Maxwell, Danielle Nenninger and Sandra Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the December 17, 2019 minutes (Barry/Wang).
Dr. Lynn Beckwith took a few moments to pay tribute to former Library Board member, Edith Cunnane, who passed away January 3, 2020.  Dr. Beckwith and Mrs. Cunnane were both appointed in 2007.  He called her the voice of reason and said she had a kind and gentle heart.  She was responsible for serving as vice president, and even when her health failed, she would participate via conference call.  He said she loved the County Library District and he was reminded of the words in 2 Timothy 4:7, “I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:” A moment of silence followed his tribute.
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Kris Mooney, Assistant Director of Administration presented the following.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Expense
	Other Personnel Expense – In December, the Library District paid $15,036 to Practical Diversity Solutions for diversity and inclusion training. This is required training for all Library employees. This was included in the 2019 Budget.
Expense
	Programming – In December, the Library District paid $37,734 for programming expenses at all of the branches and Headquarters. Included in the $37,734 is approximately $7,500 in programming for the Black History Celebration.
Expense
	Building Operations – Snow Removal – In December, the Library District paid BSR Services, Inc $84,271 for snow removal events on November 11 – 14 and December 14 – 19.
	Technology – Equipment – In December, the Library District purchased laptops to be used by branch staff at a cost of $28,722. In addition, the District purchased replacement PCs for branch self-check stations at a cost of $18,540. The laptops and PCs will replace older models that were unable to effectively receive the Windows 10 upgrade. Both purchases were included in the 2019 Budget.
Capital Projects Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet – 2016 Debt Issuance
	Construction in Progress – Total Construction in Progress for December 2019 was $725,982. The expenses included payments for:
		Construction costs for Mid-County –  $324,993
		Demolition, site clearing and grading costs for the Genealogy Library & Administrative Library Building – $302,401
		Construction costs for Meramec Valley – $64,281
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator – $22,840
		Construction costs for Thornhill – $11,467
The Library Board approved of the December Treasurer's Report subject to audit. (Wang/Sanditz)
DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Director Kristen Sorth delivered the first part of the report. Deputy Director Eric Button took over during the Black History Month Remarks. (Kristen's voice is recovering from laryngitis)
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth said this month’s dashboard includes information on the Library’s 2019 statistics.  The report includes information about circulation, visits, programming and PC usage in 2019.  With three branches closed for part of 2019, circulation was up 18% for the year.  The Library circulated 16,302,790 items.  This is an all-time record, surpassing the previous record set in 2013, when 15,082,666 items were checked out by patrons. Visits were up by 3%, with 5,158,881 people visiting the Library last year.  Program attendance was up by 13%.  The Library added 43,417 new cardholders in 2019 and 419,861 items to the collection.  The Dashboard also highlights notable increases at several locations in 2018.  The top titles by circulation are also listed.
(Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	She said the Black History Committee, which includes Brenda West Ammons, Cindy Fehmel, Robert Hall, Janelle Turner, Crystal Harris, Carla Maxwell, Nakisha Ford and Sandy Williams, did a fantastic job with Black History Month programming. The branches also scheduled some of their own programming and have great programs for patrons. Here are the highlights.
	The kickoff celebration began with the popular Rev Run and Justine Simmons.  Joseph Run Simmons is a former member of the rap group Run DMC and is seen on reality television.  He and his wife are touring with their new book “Old School Love: And Why It Works.”  This was a ticketed event on Saturday, Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at Headquarters.
	The Frankie Freeman lecture features Valerie Jarrett, author of “Finding My Voice: My Journey to the West Wing and the Path Forward.”  This former senior advisor to President Obama will speak on Friday, February 7, at 7:00 p.m. at Headquarters. Preceding her lecture, the Frankie Freeman Inspirational Award will be given to Health Advocate Valeda Keys for her work to bring cancer awareness in the community.
Deputy Director Eric Button continued the report.
	Mr. Button reported that The Black Rep presents "Character Building" on Wednesday, February 5 at 7:00 p.m. at the Lewis and Clark Branch. This one-man musical is adapted from the talks Booker T. Washington gave students and faculty at Tuskegee University.  It includes Negro spirituals intertwined with hymns of encouragement.
	Jerry Mitchell, author of “Race Against Time:  A Reporter Reopens the Unsolved Murder Cases of the Civil Rights Era,” will be featured Monday, Feb. 10 at 7 p.m. at Headquarters.
	Gabriel Bump, author of “Everywhere You Don’t Belong” will be featured Tuesday, February 11 at 7 p.m. at Headquarters.
	"Set the Night to Music" takes place Friday, February 21 at 7:00 p.m. at Florissant Valley Branch. The melodic sounds of Love Jones the Band will feature a toe-tapping, finger-snapping good time. A sample of food from a local St. Louis restaurant will be provided.  Also, the U.S. Postal Service will unveil a postal stamp of journalist Gwen Ifill at 6:40 p.m., preceding the event.
	"Gift of Gospel" takes place on Saturday, February 29, 1:00 p.m. at Florissant Valley. Featuring musical artist Gloria Jean Vann, violinist Andrea Bell Darris and the Christ Pilgrim Rest Children’s Choir. Pastor Shaun Williams will emcee. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	He said in an effort to remove obstacles and barriers to library service, the Library has implemented a "fine-free" approach, as approved by the Library Board, effective January 1, 2020. This move follows a trend at the Library, which started with the elimination of overdue fines on children's materials, and continued with the installation of automatic renewals. Going to a fine-free approach will increase library usage and greatly reduce barriers to library service. We will continue to assess charges for lost or damaged items.  On January 7, we held a media event in collaboration with St. Louis Public Library to announce the change for both of our Library Districts.  The County Executive and the Mayor were both in attendance at the event.  The change has been very well-received by the St. Louis community.  (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	The Library was selected as one of four library systems nationwide for the Pitney Bowes "Job Skills for All" grant.  We received $4,125 through ProLiteracy. This pilot effort is designed to develop workforce education using a library-based peer learning model for low-skilled adults. The Pitney Bowes direct-to-student mini-courses will help learners develop the critical skills needed to acquire a job and successfully adapt to the workplace. Courses covered in the five week learning groups include: Setting Career Goals, The Resume, The Interview, and Communicating at Work. The Adult Services Department will facilitate four learning groups over the course of 2020 at various library locations. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.2)
	He announced that the Adult Services Department is offering several financial literacy programs for patrons in 2020.  The Foundation for Financial Education will present workshops at most of our branches beginning in February. Topics include College Planning, Estate Planning, Retirement Planning and more.  The Library is also starting a new partnership with Operation Hope to offer “Lunch & Learn” workshops on topics pertaining to personal finance, such as credit and money management. Operation Hope is a non-profit organization working to disrupt poverty, and empower low and moderate income youth and adults. The pilot for this series will be offered at Florissant Valley. In the first workshop, participants will learn about what credit is, how to create a budget, and how to read and dispute possible errors on a credit report. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4)
	The Library offers adults a second chance to earn their high school diploma. Career Online High School offers adults the opportunity to complete their high school education and gain career training through a self-paced, supportive, and accredited online education program. Scholarships are available for qualified adults and are funded through the St. Louis County Library Foundation.  In 2019, we awarded 47 scholarships.  We will hold the next graduation ceremony on March 14 at Library Headquarters.  We anticipate having over 30 graduates at that event.  In addition, BiState Development plans to set up a table at graduation to talk to the graduates about job opportunities.  They have already hired one of our graduates, and would like to develop a more formal partnership. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	In 2019, the Foundation funded a very successful pilot program at Weber Road. The branch offered teen patrons an ACT prep course.  Based on the success, we are expanding to two additional branches, Florissant Valley and Prairie Commons, in 2020.  The expansion is funded by a grant from CITI.  We recently heard from a student who reported that because of the class, she improved her ACT score enough to get a $3000 scholarship from Mizzou that is renewable for four years. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	Mr. Button said Ms. Sorth was recently contacted by the special agent in charge of the St. Louis Division of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).  Ms. Sorth and Eric met with the special agent and their outreach coordinator.  The Library is making plans to host "take back" events at several branches on April 25, as part of the national program to properly dispose of unused prescription drugs. We are also exploring a speaker event prior to April 25. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	On January 21, the Customer Connect Department received a record-breaking 1,412 calls. This was the day that registration for the AARP tax assistance meetings began.  Almost 400 of those calls were answered from 9:00 – 11:00 a.m.  These meetings are held at various branches and HQ. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library is applying for a grant to fund a pilot, and is also making plans for an additional partnership with The St. Louis Alliance for Period Supplies.  This is an initiative of the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank, which helps ensure that individuals in need have access to essential period products required to fully participate in daily life.  We plan to host a product drive and serve as an emergency distribution site, which will be similar to the emergency diaper distribution program that we offer in partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library will celebrate Take Your Child to the Library Day on Saturday, February 1. Several branches will be offering free activities for families throughout the day, including visits by storybook favorite Little Critter, scavenger hunts, story time, crafts and games. (Sense of Community 2.3)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	We have a number of great photos to show the Board from several programs and events in December and January, including:  Furoshiki: Eco Friendly Wrapping at Meramec Valley, Kindergarten Prep at Florissant Valley, Life-Size Candy Land at Jamestown Bluffs, Healthy Eating Open House at Natural Bridge, New Years at Noon at Bridgeton Trails, Lap Time at HQ, STArt: Roller Coaster Engineer, Authors Willig, Williams and White at HQ, and Bollywood at Sachs.   (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Library Advocacy Day takes place on March 11. Eric Button and several other managers will travel to Jefferson City to meet with our elected officials. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	The Meramec Valley Branch was selected for the 2019 Best of Fenton Awards by the Fenton Business Recognition Association. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	Manager of Reference, Jennifer Gibson, has been selected to receive the Spectrum Scholar/PLA Conference Travel Grant.  This $1,000 grant will cover Jennifer’s cost to attend the Public Library Association Conference, held in Nashville in February.  Several other Library employees, including myself, will also attend that conference. (Plan: Sense of Community 1:3)
	A staff proposal has been selected for presentation at the National Conference of African American Librarians, held in Oklahoma in August.  Assistant Branch Manager, Carla Maxwell will present “Game Changers: Fostering Participation and Better Behavior in Tweens and Teens”. (Plan: Sense of Community 1:3)
	Mr. Button announced that Ms. Sorth has been asked to serve as a mentor for the St. Louis Business Journal’s Mentoring Monday event, which will take place on February 24. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.3)
	The Library’s Employee Assistance Program through BJC is now offering virtual care visits. Virtual care offers personalized face-to-face video visits with a BJC EAP consultant, using secure video technology. Virtual counseling will meet the needs of employees who lack transportation, or would like to participate with family members who cannot travel. Virtual counseling sessions will be the same as face-to-face sessions – counseling will be provided free of charge by BJC EAP’s expert consultants, and services will be completely confidential.
	Teen Services Coordinator, Emily McIlvoy has been selected to receive the 2020 Special Ambassador Award as a result of a nomination submitted by Dr. Leslie McEntire, from Lakeside School at Marygrove. The Special Ambassador Award is the highest recognition given by the Special School District to honor those who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment to students and/or staff of the Special School District. (Plan: Sense of Community 1:3)
	The Library’s auditors, Kerber Eck and Braeckel, will be at the Library during the week of February 18 to conduct the Library’s audit.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The signage for the Teen Space at the Mid-County Branch has been installed. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.2)
	The new Meramec Valley Branch will have a community garden.  On January 27, the Branch started accepting payment for the 20 available garden beds.  All of the beds were sold by the next day.  The Library already has community gardens at Cliff Cave, Grant’s View, and Prairie Commons. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.3)
	Excess rainwater at the new Eureka Hills Branch will be treated in a bio-retention pond before draining into a creek across Workman Road, on the east side of the property. We are requesting a drainage easement from the adjacent property owner for creek access. Lashly & Baer prepared the easement document, which will be presented to the property owner.  In addition, the Library is issuing an RFP for construction of the Eureka Hills Branch by a general contractor.  A recommendation will be brought to the Board in March.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2.3)
Library Foundation
	The 2020 St. Louis County Library Foundation Gala will be held at HQ on August 29.
	We were recently notified of the following grant awards:
		Josh Seidel Memorial Foundation, $10,000 for Coding 101 for children 10-14 years of age
		Dana Brown Charitable Trust, $20,000 for WiFi hotspots for area high schools
		Show Me Steps to Continuing Education, $1,414 for staff training in working with puppets
The following author events for February and March were shared. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	Jennifer Chiaverini, author of “Resistance Women,” Wednesday, February 5, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Fred Kaplan, author of “The Bomb,” Thursday, February 6, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Valerie Jarrett, author of “Finding My Voice:  My Journey to the West Wing and the Path Forward,” Friday, February 07, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Jerry Mitchell, author of “Race Against Time,” Monday, February 10, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Gabriel Bump, author of “Everywhere You Don’t Belong,” Tuesday, February 11, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Kate Winkler Dawson, author of “American Sherlock,” Thursday, February 13, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Charles Finch, author of “The Last Passenger,” Wednesday, February 19, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Amy Greenberg, author of “Lady First: The World of First Lady Sarah Polk,” Thursday, February 20, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Steve Berry, author of “The Warsaw Protocol,” Monday, February 24, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Fergus Bordewich, author of “Congress at War,” Wednesday, February 26, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Ticketed Event- Diane Rehm, author of “When My Time Comes,” Friday, February 28, 2020 - 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Ally Carter, author of “Winterborne Home:  Vengeance & Valor,” Sunday, March 1, 2020, 4:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Peter H. Reynolds, author of “Be You,” Saturday, March 7, 2020 10:00 a.m. Daniel Boone Branch
	C.J. Box, author of “Long Range,” Saturday, March 7, 2020 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Linda Sue Park, author of “Prairie Lotus,” Sunday, March 8, 2020 4:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Nelson Schwartz, author of “The Velvet Rope Economy: How Inequality Became Big Business,” Thursday, March 12, 2020, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
	Ticketed author Erik Larson, of “The Splendid and the Vile,” Friday, March 13, 2020, 7 p.m., Headquarters
	Alma Katsu, author of “The Deep,” Monday, March 16, 2020, 7 p.m., Headquarters.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CATALOGING, ACQUISITIONS, AND PROCESSING PRESENTATION
Kristen Sorth introduced Tracy Fletcher, Manager of Cataloging, Sara Brown, Manager of Acquisitions and Processing, and Erin Pierce, Assistant Manager of Processing. They gave a presentation on the function of their departments. Sara Brown began the presentation, relating that her department acquires and processes books. In 2019, the Library spent $8.35 million from the collections budget to acquire new materials for patrons. When deciding what to acquire for the collection, Acquisitions conducts research and checks professional reviews before purchasing from vendors.
Tracy Fletcher presented information on her department functions. Catalogers create bibliographic records for the collection.  Thirty-one thousand records were made for new material in 2019.  Next, Erin Pierce presented on the material processed.  There are approximately 34,980 labels added per month. These labels are barcodes and RFID tags. Once new materials have been fully processed and labelled, these are sorted into bins to be sent to branches.
NON-RESIDENT CARD
Deputy Director Eric Button said that Library Administration is seeking approval of a new type of non-resident library card.  The majority of residents in the St. Louis region are entitled to a free card at St. Louis County Library (SLCL), either because they are in the SLCL District, or they are part of a district with a free reciprocal agreement with SLCL. The reciprocal agreements include St. Louis Public Library, St. Charles City-County Library, and all nine municipal libraries in the Municipal Library Consortium.  Some patrons fall outside of these areas, including those living in Illinois, as well as Jefferson and Franklin counties in Missouri, just to name a few.  At this time, the only option for a non-resident to obtain an SLCL library card is to pay an annual fee of $50.00 per household.
Library employees and patrons suggested offering another option for a non-resident card.  Some non-residents want to get a better sense of the value of the membership before they commit to a full year, and others may only be living in our region for a short period of time, not wishing to invest into the 12-month non-resident card option.  We researched other libraries, and recommended a three-month card at a cost of $20.00.  This new type of non-resident card will offer patrons a short-term option for accessing the services at SLCL.  Patrons who initially purchase a three-month card may later purchase a 12-month card should their needs change.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the three-month non-resident card at a cost of $20.00 (Barry/Wang).
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT FOR NATURAL BRIDGE TEEN AREA RENOVATION
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following item for action.
Usage of the teen area in the recently renovated Natural Bridge Branch is much higher than originally anticipated. Administration has decided to enlarge the teen area primarily by removing walls of the small meeting room and blending that space into the existing teen area.
Schematic drawings and documents for the renovation of the Teen Area were created in-house, and released in an RFP on January 9, 2020. The RFP notice was placed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and on the SLCL website. Direct notices were sent to 29 construction firms, including 21 participants of the Missouri MBE/WBE program.
Proposals were received on January 24th at Headquarters. There were six proposals received. Respondents were asked to provide separate costs for two alternates: Alt 1 for acoustic panels and Alt 2 for an interactive, powered table. Administration has chosen to accept Alt 2 as reflected in the following table of results:
			Contractor
			Base Bid +
			Alt 2
			MBE
			John Kalicak Construction
			$58,604
			6.5%
			Kozeny-Wagner
			$60,850
			8.0%
			Brady Construction
			$61,455
			0.0%
			ICS Construction Services
			$65,941
			30.0%
			John Noll Construction
			$70,665
			--
			Deep Kleen & Maintenance
			$157,000
			--
This work was included in the approved 2020 Library Budget, and will be primarily funded by a donation from Emerson, who will receive naming rights for the new space.
Steve Hunter and Kelli Reeves ranked the proposals based on all elements of the RFP, including but not limited to, price, references, and MBE participation. Administration concluded the lowest and best proposal to be from Kozeny-Wagner.
There are two recommendations.
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best proposal from Kozeny-Wagner at $60,850 for the Teen Area Renovation Project at the Natural Bridge Branch, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into, and execute a contract to that effect (Barry/Wang).
Contingency
Administration requests approval of a contingency fund for this project, with a total value of $12,500, for unforeseen conditions and potential drawing changes. The spending of this contingency fund will be approved as needed by Kristen Sorth, Library Director, or Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, during the execution of the project. The accounting of the expenditures against the contingency fund will be reported back to the Library Board.
The Library Board approved a contingency fund for this project totaling $12,500 (Barry/Wang).
INVESTMENTS
Kris Mooney, Assistant Director of Administration, presented. Annually, the Library District receives most of the cash from property taxes early in the year. To maximize the amount of interest received, Library Administration will issue a request for investment rate quotes from several area financial institutions. The financial institution that submits the highest yield for the total portfolio of investments will be awarded the dollars to invest.
Typically, by this time of year, Library Administration has issued the request and received responses in order for the Board to approve the investments. However, the Collector of Revenue was not able to issue the mid-January distribution of property tax revenue until January 29, 2020. Knowing the total amount of the distribution is important, as it helps to determine the total amount to invest. As such, the request for investment rate quotes was not issued until January 30, 2020, with responses due back by February 7, 2020. It is important for the Library to invest soon after the quotes are received to take advantage of the yield for the total portfolio. The total portfolio to invest in 2020 is $34 million, the amount of each monthly investment and the maturity date is listed below:
			Investment Amount
			Maturity Date
			$6,000,000
			March 16, 2020
			$4,000,000
			April 13, 2020
			$4,000,000
			May 29, 2020
			$4,000,000
			June 30, 2020
			$4,000,000
			August 28, 2020
			$4,000,000
			September 30, 2020
			$4,000,000
			October 30, 2020
			$4,000,000
			November 30, 2020
The Library Board approved to authorize the Director to select the financial institution that submits the highest yield of the total portfolio for the investment of the 2020 operating funds. Library Administration will report back to the Board on the selection of the financial institution at the March Library Board meeting (Horwitz/Sanditz)
ADJOURNMENT
The Library Board approved adjourning the open meeting, convening to an Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)) (Wang/Horwitz).
Respectfully submitted,
_____________________________                                      ______________________
Secretary                                                                                 Date