{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "BX2W4J7C4209",
  "date": "2021-05-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY
MEETING OF THE BOARD via ZOOM
1640 SOUTH LINDBERGH BLVD.
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
 3:30 p.m.
ATTENDANCE:
Members present:
Lynn Beckwith, Ed.D., President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Member
Laura Horwitz, Secretary
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING: Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Administration; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; KEB auditors Rick Gratza, and Kelly Harrell, and Lisa Stump, Lashly and Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING: Sandra Williams, Executive Assistant.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the April 19, 2021 minutes (Barry/Wang).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no public comments to be read.
TREASURER'S REPORT
CFO Laura Taylor, reported the following.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – In April, the Library District received tax revenue in the amount of $762,540.  This tax revenue includes the Financial Institution Taxes received each year.  Year-to-date, total tax revenue for 2021 is at 85% of the budgeted $59.7 million.
	State Aid – In April, the Library District received a Missouri State Aid payment in the amount of $214,787.  This is the last of two payments for St. Louis County’s 2021 fiscal year.  The first payment for St. Louis County’s 2022 fiscal year will be received in October.  The Library District budgeted $430,000 in 2021 for Missouri State Aid.
Expense
	Insurance – In April, the Library District incurred $314,393 in insurance expenses.  This includes the annual renewal of the District’s property insurance and was approved by the Board at the March meeting.
Expense
· Capital Improvements – In April, the Library District incurred $73,778 in Capital Improvements expenses.  Notable expenses are as follows:
o $63,884 for construction performed through March 2021 at Eureka Hills – Interior Construction Services
o $13,965 for administrative professional services at Eureka Hills – Landmark Contract Management, Inc.
Capital Projects Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet – 2016 Debt Issuance
	Construction in Progress – Total Construction in Progress for April 2021 was $908,183.  The expenses included payments for:
		Pay Application from Interior Construction Services for the construction performed through March 2021, at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building for $662,506.
		Architectural professional services performed by the Lamar Johnson Collaborative through March 2021, at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building and Ladue Branch for $181,142.
		Facilities Master Plan Administrator payment of $30,195.
The Library Board approved the May 2021 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Barry).
Board member Laura Horwitz joined the meeting.
DIRECTOR & CEO’S REPORT
Ms. Sorth reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that the Dashboard report for April was shared and included the total circulation for April 2021 which was 13% lower than April 2020.  The Library reopened to the public by appointment on March 23, 2021.  Curbside delivery of materials dropped by 20% in April as patrons were able to come inside the buildings for the first time since July of 2020.   In April, 73,850 patrons visited the Library in person.  She said staff were happy to welcome people back inside and patrons were equally thrilled to be back. The Dashboard also contains information on the Teen Book Festival, virtual programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2)
	She said May 10, 2021, marked a significant expansion of library services as we moved to our regular open hours of Monday-Thursday 9:00 a.m.- 9:00 p.m. and Friday-Saturday 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Sunday hours will be added back at a later date. This date also marked the end of the requirement for appointment-based access to the branches. Patrons can now arrive any time during those hours and visit the Library when it is convenient for them. Strict capacity limits were lifted on May 10th as well, and we no longer limit the length of patron visits. A limited amount of furniture was added back into the branches to better meet the needs of patrons. Study rooms are once again available for public use as well. We also ceased the quarantining of library materials based on recommendations from the CDC and the County Department of Public Health. The public response to these changes has been overwhelmingly positive with so many patrons expressing their excitement that the library is “open.” These changes removed the obstacles and barriers that existed for many patrons in the previous phases of library service. As a result, we are beginning to see a steady increase in the number of library visitors since May 10. We have no immediate plans to open the meeting rooms for public use or to present in-person programming.  St. Louis County rescinded their mask requirement on May 14 following a change from the CDC.  The Library now recommends that patrons wear masks rather than require masks.
(Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will partner with the Missouri Department of Conservation (DOC) to lend fishing equipment to patrons starting in June. The DOC developed this program with many libraries in other parts of the state, but we will be one of the first partners in the St. Louis area. The DOC will provide 80 rods and reels along with 80 tackle boxes to be checked out as kits to library patrons. These fishing kits will be received later this week at no cost to the Library. The DOC has the goal of introducing more people to fishing and making it accessible to everyone in our community.  The Library received an employee suggestion which included fishing equipment among other suggested items for circulation.  We are exploring additional items for circulation. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	The tutoring for unique learners offered through Miriam Learning Center, which is funded by CARES Act funds, will be extended through June 11 because they had funds remaining. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	Prior to the pandemic, the Library referred patron accounts that exceeded $50 in charges to Unique Management, a collection agency.  During the pandemic, all collection efforts were paused because of the limited access to library services.  Attempts to collect on past due accounts will resume again, but we will only resume with account referrals to Unique Management that exceed $250.
	Ms. Sorth said Adult Services surveyed all of the eligible COHS graduates to help determine the number that were interested in a graduation ceremony.  Based on this and other feedback collected, we are tentatively planning for an in-person graduation ceremony later this fall.  This will be the first graduation ceremony offered since 2019.  In total, 83 students have earned their high school diploma through COHS. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1)
	Schools and school districts that were recipients of hotspots through the Digital Equity Initiative have been informed that they are encouraged to allow students to keep these devices and make use of them throughout the summer.  When the 12-month contract expires in late August, schools will not need to return the hotspot devices.  School districts may be able to take advantage of the devices if they are able to fund the service on their own. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3)
	The Library’s summer reading clubs kick-off June 1 and run through August 7. The theme for this year’s clubs is Tails and Tales. Participants can earn points for reading, attending virtual library events and completing community activities. All ages are encouraged to participate. Participants can track their progress on a print log sheet or by using the online Beanstack platform. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	She said the Library is piloting a new initiative with St. Louis County Family Courts to provide Raise a Reader bags (similar to Born to Read bags) for kids and teens at their final adoption hearings. There will be bags geared toward different age groups and they will include a book, library information, and other items such as finger puppets, journals and colored pencils. The Magic House is generously donating Family Memberships for the bags and we are in talks with other businesses and organizations regarding other sponsorships. Delta Dental has recently signed on as sponsor and will also provide toothbrushes for the bags.  This pilot will begin once adoption hearings are in person. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.2)
	The Library will be hosting a Bicentennial Challenge on the Beanstack platform for the month of August. All ages can participate. Participants will need to complete at least five activities to be entered in an electronic prize raffle. Example activities include: read a book about a famous Missourian, visit the Missouri History Museum, listen to an episode of the Our Missouri podcast, presented by The State Historical Society of Missouri, visit a Library branch and find the Missouri history section to find the secret code. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	We are currently hosting the Racism is a Health Crisis: 21-Day Racial Equity & Social Justice Challenge, in partnership with the YWCA.  We have over 550 registrants. Participants are called to make daily time and space for 21 days to foster understanding and identify ways to dismantle racism and other forms of discrimination. All participants are emailed a list of daily tasks like articles, videos, reflection questions, etc. each day during the 21-Day Challenge. The YWCA then hosts a facilitated discussion of the weekly topics each Friday afternoon during the Challenge. There were 45 people in attendance and a lot of positive feedback for the first week’s discussion on May 7. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Enrollment in the Emergency Broadband Benefit began on Wednesday, May 12. We are helping to raise awareness about the launch of this important and timely program, which helps to reduce the monthly cost of internet service at home for eligible households. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will present the Virtual Program: Emergency Broadband Benefit on Tuesday, June 8 at 6:00 p.m.  We also have information listed on our website about the Benefit and plan to share the State of Missouri’s information regarding the program on social media. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3)
	The Library now has over 1,240 subscribers on our YouTube page. Since January, Adult Services has been recording a selection of webinars and posting them to the SLCL YouTube page with captions. There are currently over 30 recordings currently available from Adult Services, with additional recordings from History & Genealogy, Reference, and Youth Services. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will again partner with Oasis to offer virtual intergenerational tutoring for children entering kindergarten – third grade.  Virtual tutoring sessions will be offered in two distinct 4-week sessions in June and July.  The focus of this tutoring is on reading and literacy.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	We are working with the St. Louis County Department of Public Health to schedule a COVID vaccination clinic at the Lewis & Clark Branch.  We are meeting this week to continue the conversation.  The clinic will likely be held the same day that the MetroMarket is visiting and we are exploring the idea of providing musical entertainment outside.  In addition, we plan to give out books to individuals at the branch.  A link has been added, on every public computer, to the County’s COVD vaccination information page.  We are also distributing information to patrons about upcoming vaccination clinics.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4)
	She said the Library will continue to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of May 14.  We are so thankful to the many community partners who have reached out to us to provide additional items to be distributed through our drive-thru meal sites. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	She said the Library began circulating fifteen portable projectors with built-in speakers to the public on April 26.  We received a grant from the Missouri State Library for this project. The use of portable projectors became widespread during the pandemic as many people held outdoor movie nights on a big screen. This has been extremely popular with patrons.  We currently have over 100 patron requests for projectors.  In order to meet the demand, we have ordered twenty additional portable projectors.  (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	In partnership with HEC Media, the library hosted the inaugural St. Louis Teen Book Festival from April 8-18. The St. Louis Teen Book Festival was established to provide an entertaining, thoughtful and diverse celebration of young adult literature to the teen readers of the St. Louis region. The festival hosted 39 teen writers, including internationally bestselling authors and debut voices; and writers of science fiction, fantasy, romance and thrillers. The keynote event featured an interview with sensationally popular, fantasy author Marissa Meyer. Panel topics included body image, intersectional identity, immigration stories, family dynamics, and mental health. The Teen Fest events were broadcast on the Facebook pages of St. Louis County Library, HEC Media and The Novel Neighbor, our independent bookstore partner. HEC Media created a YouTube playlist of all the videos - shared by both the library and HEC. HEC's sister-site Educate. Today coordinated outreach to middle and high schools throughout the region. We estimate around 5,500 teens, educators and parents participated and watched the Teen Fest events. Feedback from viewers, authors, and publishers has all been overwhelmingly positive. The videos are archived on HEC’s website and YouTube channel for additional views. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
	Crystal Harris, Manager of Bookmobiles and Mobile Services, participated in an important community discussion regarding library service in the Bellefontaine and Riverview areas. The meeting consisted of employees at the Lincoln University Urban Impact Center, elected officials, Chief of Police for Bellefontaine Neighbors and the Communications Director of the Riverview Gardens School District. There was expressed interest to work with the Library in providing Sweet Reads service in the Bellefontaine and Riverview areas. We are working to schedule Sweet Reads service stops in those communities. (Plan: Maximize Access 1)
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared.
	Here are pictures from various events that have taken place over the last month including Meal Distribution, Veggie Garden Kit Distribution, Eureka Hills School Tour, Virtual Programs and Branch Reopening’s. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.1)
Library Administrative Updates
	The Library has had several planning sessions with Hicks-Carter-Hicks regarding the Community Conversations project. At their request, we have provided a list of employees and community stakeholders to interview.  I will be sending an email to employees and the community stakeholders regarding the Community Conversations project and outlining the project. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth has been meeting with state and local officials regarding the dollars that may be coming to public libraries through the American Rescue Plan of 2021.  I will continue to update the Library Board as more information is available. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.2)
	The ITS Department has completed the setup and installation of 79 new Self-Checkout Stations across the District.  They are now working on the deployment of 19 new web filters for the Library’s public Wi-Fi access at the branches.  As mentioned in a previous Board Meeting, the Library will save $185,000 over three years by eliminating Charter Spectrum’s web filtering services. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3)
	Human Resources has started a project with Ceridian on the implementation of the new document management software.  HR will be scanning all current employees’ personnel files in the new system.  These files will be attached to employees’ records in the Ceridian Dayforce (HRIS) system.  One of the goals is for HR to go paperless and reduce the amount of file cabinets they will have to take to the new building.
	May is Mental Wellness Awareness Month and to celebrate, employees are encouraged to fill out a Mental Health Punch Card that has 20 suggestions listed. The effort is to reduce any stigma and to help us better connect with ourselves and others. Employees are not required to share which suggestions they have completed but are encouraged to complete 5, 10, 15, or 20 to be entered into a raffle for a gift card. Some examples are: watching the sunset or sunrise, performing a random act of kindness, spending time on a meaningful hobby, and thanking someone you see every day. Information from February and March’s system-wide training about understanding trauma and practicing self-care were also shared. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	The Staff Development Cohort is half way finished with the program and are wrapping up sessions with departments that offer patron services. This month, they are learning about Bookmobile and Mobile Services, Adult Services, and Youth Services. Next, they will be learning more about the internal structure of the Library by meeting with Acquisitions, Systems Administration, and ITS. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the new St. Louis County Library mobile app went live the week of May 10th. The new app will automatically install as an update (no need to delete the old app and reinstall). The new version is powered by Solus, and features a streamlined menu and improved functionality. Patrons can use the app to search the catalog, place holds and renew library materials, among other things. Info will be shared with the public about the updated app on the Library’s homepage and social media channels. (Plan: Maximize Access 3.4)
Library Construction and Facility Updates
	The Eureka Hills Branch will open to the public on June 2, 2021 at 9:00 a.m. immediately following a ribbon cutting. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	The Library Foundation received over $18,000 in donations on Give STL Day.  This was less than last year’s amount, but significantly more than anticipated, based on the current fundraising landscape.
	The Foundation hosted a planned giving webinar on April 28, 2021.  The Foundation and the presenters were thrilled to have 87 attendees.  The Foundation has hosted planned giving events for many years.  Previous in-person planned giving events had twenty attendees.
	Staff were recently notified of the following grant award:
		Boeing Employees Community Fund - $5,150 for Oasis Intergenerational Tutoring
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
We have Livestream author events and recordings with the following authors. They are posted on our website as well as the HEC Facebook link - facebook.com/hectv and then archived at hecmedia.org. We are promoting on our social media and sending eblasts that direct patrons to the HEC sites. HEC has also started simultaneously premiering the virtual author events on their TV channel to expand access to those individuals who do not have reliable internet access. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	David O. Stewart, author of "George Washington: The Political Rise of America’s Founding Father," Monday, May 17, 2021, 7:00 p.m. www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary. In conversation with Amanda Clark, Missouri Historical Society - Community Tours Manager
	Peter H. Raven, author of "Driven By Nature: A Personal Journey from Shanghai to Botany and Global Sustainability," Thursday, May 20, 2021, 7:00 p.m. Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Cory Anderson, author of "What Beauty There Is," Saturday, May 22, 2021, 2:00 p.m., www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Stephanie Malia Krauss, author of “Making It: What Today’s Kids Need for Tomorrow’s World,” Tuesday, May 25, 2021, 7:00 p.m. Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Sarah Kendzior, author of "Hiding in Plain Sight: The Invention of Donald Trump and the Erosion of America,” Thursday, May 27, 2021, 7:00 p.m. www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Marie Mutsuki Mockett, author of "American Harvest: God, Country, and Farming in the Heartland," Tuesday, June 1, 2021, 7:00 p.m., Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Francesca Gino, author of "Rebel Talent: Why It Pays to Break the Rules at Work and In Life," Thursday, June 3, 2021, 7:00 p.m., Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Ben Rhodes, author of "After the Fall: Being American in the World We’ve Made," Monday, June 7, 2021 7:00 p.m., www.facebook.com/STLCoLibraryIn conversation with Tony Messenger, Pulitzer Prize-Winning St. Louis Post Dispatch Reporter
	Valerie Battle Kienzle, author of "Ready to Wear: A History of the Footwear and Garment Industries in St. Louis," Thursday, June 10, 2021, 7:00 p.m. Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Daniel Levin, author of "Proof of Life: Twenty Days on the Hunt for a Missing Person in the Middle East," Monday, June 14, 2021, 7:00 p.m. www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Fiona Mozley, author of “Hot Stew,” Wednesday, June 16, 2021, 7:00 p.m. Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that there was a water line break at HQ on May 14. He said it was reported by the Ladue Police. The situation was contained and has been repaired.  The parking lot will be repaved on the west side at HQ. Due to the situation of having no water in the building, Headquarters was closed on May 17. The HVAC chiller was turned off as well.
Mr. Hunter said there is a lot of activity going on with the Beck Building. The roof decking is up. He anticipates the building being complete in spring 2022.
Eureka Hills is ready to open June 2, 2021.
Design development has commenced for the new Ladue Branch.
2020 LIBRARY AUDIT
Kristen Sorth and Laura Taylor presented the following report. Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) auditors Rick Gratza presented the report. This is the 2nd year of the completion of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report. Laura Taylor and Kristen Sorth and team were commended for their work and cooperation.
The 2020 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and the 2020 Federal Single Audit Report are attached.  The first report includes the operation of the Library Foundation.  The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) issued an unmodified opinion on the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.   An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements.  This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
KEB also reports that the schedule of expenditures of federal awards is fairly stated and that the District complied with the federal requirements that could have a direct effect on the federal programs for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Rick Gratza, a Partner with KEB, attended the meeting to present the reports and answer any questions. Mr. Gratza oversees the Library audit.
The Library Administration recommends the acceptance of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and the Federal Single Audit Report. Copies of the Comprehensive Annual Audit Report will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. A copy of the Federal Single Audit Report will be sent to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse as required. The reports will also be available on the Library’s website.
No material weaknesses or insufficiencies were identified. No noncompliance areas were identified.  Financial disclosures were neutral, consistent and clear. No difficulties were encountered. KEB Auditor Kelly Harrell, reported on Condensed Statements of net position.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Horwitz/Barry).
ADJOURNMENT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. Wang made a motion to adjourn Open Session Meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021) (1). Motion was seconded by Mr. Sanditz. Board approved the motion with voice approval by all. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Laura Horwitz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang.
Meeting adjourned at 4:23 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
_________________________________                                                      ___________
Laura Horwitz,                                                                                                Date
Secretary