{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLSX569F46",
  "date": "2022-09-26T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, September 26, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang,Vice President, joined via telephone
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO); Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, and Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Andrew Freshwater, Alaina Culbertson, Donna Spaulding, Laura Kasak, Dany Nenninger, Emily Althoff, Amy Hanaway, Annie Fuller, Nicole Clawson, Nora Marino, Nicole Walsh, Lisa Haddox, Carla Maxwell, Melissa Albers, Chris Goodman, Anna Gonzalez, Will LaChance, Andrea Carter, Kalin Preston, Eric Button, Deanna Davis, Stephanie Nordmann, Keir Haug, Brent Trout, Kim Ford, Melissa Bauer, Alaina Chivithy, Conrad Rader and Sandra Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the August 22, 2022 minutes (Barry/Patterson).
ADJOURN FOR TAX HEARING
Deborah Patterson moved to adjourn for the Tax Hearing. Joan Barry seconded.
Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
Motion passed.
TAX HEARING
Dr. Beckwith asked if any patrons had any tax related information to present before the Board.  No one came forward.
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported that the Missouri State Statute requires that a public hearing be held prior to the Library Board setting the 2022 tax rates. The four subclasses of property are residential, agricultural, commercial, and personal property. As in prior years, the required legal notice must be published in one newspaper or in a minimum of three branch locations prior to the date of the hearing. The attached notice appeared at all the branches on September 16, 2022.
The tax hearing gives the public the opportunity to present their comments about the Library’s tax rates. The agenda for the meeting is attached.
The setting of the 2022 tax rates will also take place at the September Library Board meeting.  Post Board of Equalization assessments for 2022 will be used to set the tax rates prior to October 1, 2022.
The Board approved a motion to adjourn the Tax Hearing and resume the regular meeting (Sanditz/Patterson).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were none.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor reported the following.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements: Revenue
· District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $57.5 million and is at 101% of the total budgeted amount. The Library District will continue to receive a small amount of tax revenue throughout the year. · Miscellaneous Income – In August, the Library District received $92,825 in miscellaneous income. This amount is from the liquidation auction of furniture and equipment at Headquarters.
Expense
· Building Repair - Other – In August, the Library District incurred $33,121 in other building repair expense. Of this amount, $18,902 was paid to Murphy Company for the repair of a broken pipe and pump for the sewage lift station at the Prairie Commons Branch.
 · Building Operations - Grounds – In August, the Library District incurred $59,989 in building operations - grounds expense. Of this amount, $59,602 was paid to Focal Pointe for landscaping work completed between May and July 2022. This vendor prefers to send their invoices after completing several months of service.
 · Capital Improvements – In August, the Library District incurred a total of $619,543 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $211,614 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building through July 2022.
Administration recommends approval of the September 2022 Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
(Barry/ Patterson.)
TAX RATES
The Library Administration has reviewed the 2022 post Board of Equalization (BOE) property value assessments.  Property values have increased over prior year in total by 4.4%. A breakdown of the assessments by category is as follows:
The Board is reminded that the 2022 tax revenue, along with the surtax on commercial property, will provide approximately 97% of the cash income needed to operate in 2023. According to State Statute, the Board must set the 2022 tax rates by October 1, 2022.  Proposed tax rates and prior year tax rates are as follows:
The above proposed tax rates are set at the ceiling and would provide approximately $59,000,000 in tax revenue for 2023.
RECOMMENDATION:  The Library Administration recommends Board approval of the attached Resolution which states the above proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property are assessed as the 2022 tax rates. If, after validation by the Missouri State Auditor, the tax rate ceiling allowed for any or all subclasses is less than or greater than the approved rate(s) the Director is hereby authorized to set the final rate (s) for the Library as validated by the State of Missouri Auditor. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our patrons and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 and September, 2016. (Patterson/Sanditz).
BUDGET REVISION
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO and Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the Budget Revision document prepared by the Budget Committee members who are listed as follows:
Kristen Sorth Director &  CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Financial Officer; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; and Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations.
The committee has reviewed the 2022 budget revision. Account changes are explained within the
attached Budget Revision narrative and summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures.
The Library Board approved of the 2022 revised budget. (Barry/Patterson).
DIRECTOR & CEO’S REPORT
Ms. Sorth reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for August. She said the total circulation is 19% lower than August of 2021. The number of checkouts has increased by 3% while renewals are down 43%.  The decrease in total circulation can be attributed to the new 21-day checkout period with a limit of three renewals, which was implemented as part of the merged catalog with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL) The decrease is also attributed to a double counting error of Overdrive checkouts by Polaris.  Visits to the Library continue to rise with 331,439 visits in August, which is 32% higher than August of 2021.  Materials are shipping between SLCL and SLPL in large numbers. In August, 50,367 items were transferred between the two systems.  Since the catalog merge, a total of 269,650 items have traveled between the two systems.  In addition, 158,048 holds were placed, 152,028 holds were fulfilled, and 677,646 items were checked in.  Information on PC usage, new patron registrations, programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month are also included. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2, Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, and Maximize Access 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that St. Louis County Library is partnering with the Kranzberg Arts Foundation to bring arts-based programming and cultural enrichment to our branches this fall. The programming is made possible by a $200,000 endowment from the Kranzberg Arts Foundation to the St. Louis County Library Foundation. The endowment will develop and utilize Library spaces for use as artistic venues and provide an arts-based approach to community development. In addition to programming, the Library will host annual group exhibits featuring Kranzberg Arts Foundation visual artists-in-residence at the new Clark Family Branch.  Kranzberg programming at the Library will begin in October at two branches. Musician and educator, Harvey Lockhart, will host the monthly Kranzberg Jazz Jam every first Thursday of the month at the Lewis and Clark Branch.  This weekly gathering brings jazz within reach for people of all ages and backgrounds, while celebrating St. Louis’ jazz legacy and future. The first session will take place on October 6 at 6:00 p.m.  The Kranzberg High Noon Speakers Series will take place at the Florissant Valley Branch on the second Monday of each month starting on October 10 at noon. The series features guest speakers from across the arts, culture and thought leadership landscape. Attendees are invited to bring their lunch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 2.2)
	Ms. Sorth said The Storytelling Festival committee has planned a robust 43rd Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival, which will take place October 13-22. St. Louis County is the new home for the Festival, featuring eight storytellers traveling to St. Louis from all across the nation for events, such as Thursday Nights at the Museum: The American Experience through Storytelling, Tales After Dark, and Stories on Stage. Additionally, at least four regional storytellers from the St. Louis area will also be showcased. The Festival will be hosted at our branches, the History Museum, the J, and the Kranzberg Art Foundation's High Low.  Thirty-six schools spread out over the County will receive visits/performances by featured and regional storytellers as part of this year’s Storytelling Festival. Communications has a robust marketing plan for the Festival including a transit campaign that will run for eight weeks and will include exterior bus ads at MetroLink stops. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library is partnering with The Little Bit Foundation to host a sock and underwear drive to benefit youth in our area.  The Little Bit Foundation fell victim to major flooding in their warehouse due to the heavy rains in August, which destroyed most of their stockpile of resources.  The drive, which will be held at all nineteen branch locations, runs from October 1-16.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	BJC’s Community Health Improvement team is partnering with the Library to establish Community Wellness Hubs at three branches, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, and Parkview.  The establishment of the Community Wellness Hubs will develop over several phases beginning with monthly programming offered in November and December.  Topics will center around mental health and personal well-being.  As the Hubs develop, the range of programs, services, and resources offered to the community will increase.  BJC recently went through a strategic planning process. One of the areas of their plan is focused on advancing equitable health and educational outcomes by increasing access to comprehensive wraparound supports for children and staff in early learning and K-12 settings and surrounding communities. One of their strategies is to increase support for community behavioral health programs focused on providing and extending services to students.  They see an opportunity to do that by creating or expanding access in community hub locations at the Library for behavioral health services. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1, 2.3, and Maximize Access 1.4, 2.2)
	The Library and Operation Food Search are working together to provide after school meals to children at eight branches.  Participating branches are serving a healthy, light meal along with activities for kids and teens Monday–Friday during the school year. Meals will be available free of charge for children ages 5–18 at Florissant Valley, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Parkview, Prairie Commons, Rock Road and Weber Road branches.  Also, Operation Food Search had a sudden opening for the MetroMarket on August 27th and asked if they could visit the Florissant Valley Branch. With no advanced promotion, twenty-five people visited in just two hours. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, Maximize Impact 1)
	Lewis & Clark will host an event in partnership with Code for America to register eligible families to receive benefits to apply toward the cost of home internet access through the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP).  This sign-up event will take place on October 15.  The goal of the event is to register at least 50 households for the program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1)
	October 15 also marks the launch of a new service offered at Lewis & Clark in partnership with Legal Services of Eastern Missouri (LSEM).  LSEM will be on site that morning and part of the afternoon to offer free assistance to people through their Family Law Clinic.  The legal clinics will be focused on family law matters, including assistance for domestic violence survivors, divorce, and custody issues. The clinics are an opportunity for individuals who will not be directly represented by LSEM to receive assistance on filing their own cases. This is a clinic for individuals who would be filing and representing themselves in court.  The clinic will host approximately 10 attorneys who are affiliated with LSEM. These attorneys will have pre-set appointments. Services will not be provided on a walk-in basis. The attorneys will assist patrons in filling out paperwork and determining the next steps in their legal cases. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were a total of 32,788 registrations for Summer Reading Club this year and 21,034 of those registered completed the clubs. Registration increased by 20% and completions were up by 13% over 2021. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1, 2.3)
	TeenTober™ is a nationwide celebration hosted by libraries every October and aims to celebrate teens, promote year-round teen services and the innovative ways teen services help teens learn new skills, and fuel their passions in and outside the library. The Library will again be celebrating Teentober by hosting over 60 special programs for teens at all branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.3, 3.3, Sense of Community 2.2)
	The Welcoming Ambassador Education Program training sessions wrapped up earlier this month. The Library’s forty Welcoming Ambassadors represent almost every branch and public-facing department. They attended several training sessions from June-September, culminating with a celebration of Welcoming Week (September 9-18) featuring special programs, activities and displays. The Welcoming Ambassadors help to welcome immigrants, support diversity, and create a sense of belonging at the Library. They are available to share Library information and resources with foreign-born patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 1.3, 2.2)
	The theme for this year’s bookmark contest was St. Louis County Library’s 75th Anniversary. There were 483 total entries. And the winners are:
Ages 6-8
			Alex M., Age 8, Daniel Boone
			Jeffery H., Age 7, Florissant Valley
Ages 9-11
			Kami D., Age 10, Eureka Hills
			Ellie K., Age 11, Eureka Hills
Ages 12-14
			Devika E., Age 13, Daniel Boone
			Cailey J., Age 14, Sachs
Ages 15-17
			Elizabeth P., Age 16, Grand Glaize
			Elle Y., Age 15, Grand Glaize (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.2, 2.3)
	The Community Action Agency of St. Louis County (CAASTLC) has been providing assistance to patrons seeking financial help with energy bills, water/sewer bills, rent/mortgage payments and home weatherization at Weber Road and Grant’s View beginning in June 2022.  CAASTLC has extended their service to North County patrons. In addition to Weber Road and Grant’s View, Florissant Valley and Jamestown Bluffs now host CAASTLC weekly on Tuesdays. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1)
	The Bail Project will be launching a pretrial support program for eligible Tap In Center clients. Eligible clients are those who are charged with a felony in St. Louis County and live within the metro area. They do not need to be a current or former client to participate in this pretrial support program.  The Bail Project will be providing the same wrap around services that are part of their community release with support model. One of the most exciting benefits for Tap In Center clients will be court reminders and transportation to court. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Oral History Kits, developed and curated by the History and Genealogy Department, will be available for patrons in October.  These kits will be bookable through the MyTurn platform. The kits will include a recorder, microphone, books, instructions, and how to guides. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, 1.4, Sense of Community 2.3)
	The Library is receiving student information from many districts enrolling in the ConnectEd program for the 2022/2023 school year. We have created or updated cards for more than 80,000 students and educators at many school districts. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.1, Maximize Access 1.1)
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of September 23, 2022.   (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including:  In the Branch at Weber Road, GrandPad Pickup at Lewis & Clark, Author Elliot Ackerman at The J, Author Lisa Jewell at Grant’s View, Teen Summer Ending Party at Grant’s View, Born to Read Birthday Party at Mid-County and Author Daniel Stone at Daniel Boone. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that St. Louis County Library has been named the 2022 Missouri Library of the Year by the Missouri Library Association (MLA) for distinguished and outstanding service for the community.  The award will be presented at MLA’s annual conference on September 29 in Springfield, MO. We are honored to receive this award celebrating the work of our employees. St. Louis County Library is very proud of our work supporting the region during the pandemic. Together with our community partners, we have provided essential services such as meals, diapers, technology, tutoring, vaccines and rental assistance at our branches. The resiliency and creativity of our employees made this achievement possible.  (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	I received the following email from a patron about the Rock Road branch.
I use this location more than any I've used in my life because (1) your staff--everyone--makes me feel most welcome, (2) I know I will get whatever assistance and/or virus protection supplies I need, and (3) Mr. Raymond Kerr, custodian, keeps his branch immaculate.   I utilize it so much I know my card number by heart.
The entire staff at this branch seems to be on the same page, doing their utmost to make the Rock Road library feel like patrons are at home.
I also appreciate how each branch of slcl increasingly serves the communities they are based in.  More than just libraries, they have become ESSENTIAL by offering more services and resources to everyone.
Thank you, thank you, THANK YOU. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The patrons at the Cliff Cave Branch have been signing a giant birthday card for the Library and it is full of lovely sentiments. Ms. Sorth displayed the card for the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 3.5)
	In August, Employee Relations Specialist, Tarza Tawfiq, started scheduling therapy dogs for visits with Library employees. The therapy dogs are from various local organizations.  The hours are based on the handlers of the therapy dog and their availability. Unfortunately, the current organizations are not able to visit all branches. Tarza is contacting other forms of animal/dog therapy to schedule visits at additional branches. This program has been very well received by Library employees. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	She said the Library is offering a flu shot clinic for employees again this year.  Flu Shots will be administered by the Visiting Nurse Association on September 29 and 30.  The clinics are scheduled at the three regional branches, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, and Grant’s View and at the Beck. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	The new Strategic Plan is being drafted based on input from the community, employees, and managers.  Managers and administrators will meet on October 12 to develop ideas for activities to carry out the plan. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 2)
	Administration, in consultation with Lashly Baer, is providing guidance to Library employees who serve schools to be sure they are aware of the impact of SB775, which became law in Missouri late last month.  There are a couple of important points to make about this law.  The first is that it focuses on public and private schools and it is not as pertinent to public libraries.   There are a few very specific circumstances in which the law could apply to SLCL employees.  Another key point to take from this law is that it clearly limits what is considered sexually explicit to items that feature visual images as defined in the statute.  Written text is not considered sexually explicit material in the context of this law.  Although the intent of the law is to limit access to material in public and private schools, it can impact some St. Louis County Library services offered to students and schools in the course of our outreach.  Library employees visiting schools with bookmobile service, conducting outreach, programs, book talks etc. would be subject to the law as a "nonschool employee who is invited to present information to students by a teacher, administrator, or other school employee."  Our employees are taking extra steps to ensure that we do not risk violating the law in the course of our provision of bookmobile services and other forms of school outreach. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1, Maximize Access 2.4)
	Last month, the Library Board approved hiring Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH) to provide Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion consulting services for the Library which includes a review of the Library’s employment practices, policies, and procedures.  We had our first kickoff meeting and are finalizing the contract and timeframe for the project. (Plan: Sense of Community 1, Maximize Access 2.4)
	I was asked to participate in a St. Louis Funder’s Roundtable where some of the largest local foundations meet regularly to discuss funding priorities and initiatives in the St. Louis community specifically related to the education and health of children.  The topic for the three-person panel, of which I was a panelist, was literacy.  We were asked to answer the following questions.
	What two strategies/approaches do you think are most important to positively impact literacy proficiency?
	What will it take to implement these strategies/approaches? (What needs to be done and who needs to be involved?) (Plan: Promote Literacy 1, 2, Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Mid-County’s parking garage flooded with 4” of water twice during the rain events. The flooding appears to be due to an undersized municipal drain.  Steve Hunter and I met with the City of Clayton to discuss the situation.  The City made an introduction with MSD to further explore the issue. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	An RFQ for architectural services at the Sachs Branch was issued on August 10, 2022. Responses have been received and reviewed, and three candidates have been interviewed. Per Library policy, we are beginning fee negotiations with a selected candidate and plan to bring a recommendation to the Board in October. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.1, 2.4)
	MSD is planning a large underground project near the Daniel Boone Branch. It appears some disturbance of Library property will be required. While construction isn’t scheduled to begin until early 2024, there will be easement agreements and traffic control issues to consider between now and then. We will keep the Board apprised as events warrant. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	The long awaited generator at the Beck has been installed and is up and running. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	October is Fire Prevention Month.  Dan Lucas, Manager of Safety and Security, will be conducting fire drills at all Library locations to raise fire safety awareness in the workplace. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	Due to a sudden increase in patron incidents at the Bridgeton Trails Branch, we plan to use a vacant position to create a fifth Public Safety Specialist to assist branch employees with handling these challenging situations. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation will host an 1980s themed St. Louis County Library 75th Anniversary Celebration and fundraising event on November 17, 2022 at the Sheldon.  Local entertainer, Brian Owens, will perform.  All Library employees will be invited to attend at a much reduced rate of $7.50.   The Advancement Team is currently working to secure sponsorships for the event.  Ticket sales for the general public will open on October 3.    The Foundation received the following grant awards:
	$5,000 from the Luke and Jude Schmieder Charitable Trust - unrestricted gift to the SLCL Foundation
	$2,500 from the Enterprise Holdings Foundation - unrestricted gift to the SLCL Foundation
	$5,000 from the Missouri Arts Council for the 2022 Storytelling Festival
Author Events
	Tickets are on-sale now for the author event with literary fiction master George Saunders at Skip Viragh Performing Arts Center/Chaminade on Oct. 26. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	Author Event Coordinator, Carrie Robb, has confirmed a ticketed event on December 8 with two-time National Poet Laureate Billy Collins. This event will be included in the library’s SLCL Authors @ the J series and will be held in the gym space of the Staenberg Family Complex.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	The Library is finalizing the line-up for the St. Louis Teen Book Festival on December 3.  The event will be held at the Ladue Horton Watkins High School. The Festival will feature an exciting and diverse lineup of well-known and up-and-coming young adult authors including: Bill Konigsberg, Ryan La Sala, Jenna Welch Evans, Jas Hammonds, Randi Pink, Jeff Bishop, Adrienne Young. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 1.3, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.2)
	Programming for 2023 has started.  The 2023 Author Series will kick-off with an event with library favorite Brad Meltzer on Jan. 19. The event will be included in the SLCL Authors @ the J series. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
September and October Author Events
	Adrian Elizabeth Bracy, author of “Halftime: How to Pivot as a Leader and Identify Your Next Steps,” Monday, September 26, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Florissant Valley Branch,195 New Florissant Rd. S, Florissant, MO 63031.
	C.J. Box, author of “Treasure State: A Cassie Dewell Novel,” Wednesday, September 28, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Ethical Society of St. Louis, 9001 Clayton Rd., St. Louis MO 63117.
	Silas House, author of “Lark Ascending,” Monday, October 3, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd. Ellisville, MO 63011.
	Kate Winkler Dawson, author of “All That is Wicked: A Gilded-Age Story of Murder and the Race to Decode the Criminal Mind,” Thursday, October 6, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Kwame Mbalia, “Tristan Strong Keeps Punching” and Roseanne A. Brown, “Serwa Boateng’s Guide to Vampire Hunting,” Tuesday, October 11, 2022, 6:30 p.m., Florissant Valley Branch, 195 New Florissant Rd., S., Florissant, MO 63031.
	Amanda E. Doyle, author of “Tower Grove Park: Common Ground and Grateful Shade Since 1872,”  Wednesday, October 19, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that the replacement of dead plants and trees are taking place this week and that the detention pond is now draining properly.
The new generator has been installed at the Beck after a long delay. It has been tested and is working well. Mr. Hunter showed a PowerPoint of graphics displayed on the walls throughout the Beck.
He said that Headquarters at 1640 Lindbergh Blvd. is currently under demolition and that the Clark Family Branch site has additional dirt being delivered so that the new branch is elevated to street level.
WELCOMING WEEK
Riqui Brooks, Adult Literacy Coordinator and winner of the SLBJ Champions for Diversity and Inclusion Awards, reported to the Board about the Welcoming Week program.  She also thanked Rebecca Clarke and Melissa Bauer, her manager and assistant manager, in her report.
Ms. Brooks said it is often daunting for new immigrants entering new space. She said the Library can serve as a lifesaving resource thanks to the Welcoming Ambassadors program. The program has made SLCL more welcoming.  The goal is to promote a welcoming and inclusive atmosphere and help connect people to resources they need to become naturalized. It also helps to increase engagement and solidify SLCL as an entry point for immigrants new to our society and we are also developing partnerships with organizations with similar missions.
The ambassadors also participated in the Festival of Nations at Tower Grove Park.  Literature was distributed and 30 new library card holders were obtained.
2019-2022 STRATEGIC PLAN
Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives, presented a PowerPoint presentation reviewing the completed programs and services of the Strategic Plan from 2019 through 2022.  She highlighted some of the activities in support of the Strategic Plan.
She mentioned the introduction of Explore a Story and the return of Bookmobiles.  She said the Tap-In-Center helped to foster a sense of community and social connectedness by helping people with legal issues.  The program has been expanded to the Lewis and Clark Branch.  She said we now have the ability to translate into 16 languages on our website.   This year the Library won two outstanding awards from IMLS and MLA.
Finally, the Library launched a shared catalog service with St. Louis Public Library offering thousands of additional books to the community.
CLOUD VOIP PHONE SYSTEM RENEWAL
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director of ITS, gave the following informational report.
In May of 2019, the Library Board approved a three-year contract for a Cloud based Voice-Over-IP (VOIP) Telephone System from GoTo Communications (formerly known as Jive).  The Library plans to renew the contract for three more years.
With GoTo’s monthly rate remaining at $15.95 per phone per month as it has been for the past 36 months, staff finds the cost reasonable.  Section 6. Exceptions to the Procurement Process" of the POLICY I PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES states “When the Library has previously authorized the purchase of software and related technology equipment pursuant to this Policy, the annual license or software renewal and maintenance agreements for such software and/or equipment in subsequent years are not required to be competitively bid.”  Administration has discussed this renewal with the Library’s legal counsel, and these services are within the exclusion.
Library Administration will enter into a new contract with GoTo Communications for Cloud based VOIP Telephone services for $195,804 for 36 months that will commence in October of 2022.  VOIP telephone services are included in the 2022 Telecommunications budget.
LIBRARY PROGRAMMING POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button, reported the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of the proposed Library Programming Policy.  Although the Library has been offering programs to the public for many years while following some established best practices, there has never been a formal policy to create the foundational principles for programming.  The proposed policy provides this foundation.
The proposed policy, which was reviewed by legal counsel, is provided as an attachment.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the Library Programming Policy (Barry/Sanditz).
LIBRARY CODE OF CONDUCT
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this report.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Library Code of Conduct.  The proposed revision includes one substantive change.   The statement pertaining to the supervision of children under the age of 10 was adjusted to indicate that a person at least 16 years of age may be responsible for the supervision of a child under the age of 10 while visiting the library.  The current version requires the individual to be 18 years of age to be eligible to provide supervision of a child under the age of 10.  In many cases, caregivers or siblings are able to transport younger children to the library at the age of 16.  Library Administration feels it is appropriate to reflect this age in the Code of Conduct.  Emphasis was also placed on providing adequate supervision.
Both a Redline and a clean version of the proposed policy, which has been reviewed by legal counsel, were provided as attachments.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the approval of the revisions to the Library Code of Conduct (Sanditz/Barry).
Deborah Patterson was excused from the meeting.
PHOTOGRAPHY AND RECORDING POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this report.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Photography and Recording Policy. The policy was presented to the Library Board in 2015. Since that time, there have been many discussions and challenges pertaining to individuals’ rights in public places. At the same time, the usage of phones and other personal photography and recording devices has exploded and their usage is widely accepted in nearly all environments. The most substantial change to the policy is that it allows for casual amateur photography and recording without prior approval from the Library as long as the activity is not disruptive or otherwise in violation of the Library Code of Conduct.
Both a Redline and a clean version of the proposed policy, which has been reviewed by legal counsel, are provided as attachments.
The Library Board approved of the revisions to the Photography and Recording Policy (Barry/Sanditz).
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Mary Arnhart, Manager of Human Resources, delivered this reported.
According to the Personnel Manual, the Library Board appoints two employees to the Grievance Committee for four-year terms.  One employee is appointed in even numbered years and the other in odd numbered years.  Terms of the Grievance Committee shall commence on October 1.
The current Board appointed employee serving on the Grievance Committee is Lorraine Budke.  Her term will expire on September 30, 2022.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation that the Library Board consider Erin Stoverink from the Processing Department to serve a four-year term (Barry/Sanditz).
ADJOURNMENT
Ted Sanditz motioned to adjourn the meeting. Joan Barry seconded. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang
All approved with voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 4:53 p.m.
Sincerely,
_________________________________                  ________________________________
Joan Barry                                                                   Date                                                              Secretary