{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLU756CB1F",
  "date": "2022-10-24T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, October 24, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang. Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary, joined via telephone
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO); Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, Chaska Farber, Fellow; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Lindsey Piech, Megan Phifer-Davis, Jennifer McBride, Brent Trout, Katie Keeven, Connie Dee, Chasidy Allen, Anne Arthur, Nana Chibitty, Stacey Berger, Emma Figueroa, Nicole Walsh, Miriam Whatley, Stephanie Nordmann, Rebeca Clarke, Jennifer Gibson, Keir Haug, Melissa Albers, Andrea Johnson, Sarah Brown, Becky Maue, Lucas Peterson, Michelle Hawkins, Sarah Brown, Becky Maue, Lucas Peterson, Michelle Hawkins, Beth Watts, Natalia Catlett, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood and Sandra Williams.
MOMENT OF SILENCE
A moment of silence was held at the request of Dr. Beckwith, in memory of Alexzandria Bell, Jean Kuczka and for all of the students, teachers, and families. The student and teacher, were both killed in the attack at the St. Louis Visual and Performing Arts School, that morning.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 26, 2022 minutes (Sanditz/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no visitors to speak before the Library Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the Treasurer’s Report.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $57.8 million and is at 100% of the total revised budgeted amount. The Library District will continue to receive a small amount of tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Grants – In September, the Library District received $66,666 in state grants. This amount consists of $26,666 for the technology ladder grant that is being used for the Drupal upgrade and $40,000 for the final payment of the ARPA grant.
Expense
	Building Repair - Other – In September, the Library District incurred $14,418 in other building repair expense. Of this amount, $6,600 was paid to ICS for the window repairs at the Thornhill Branch.
	Building Operations - Grounds – In September, the Library District incurred $25,004 in building operations - grounds expense. This amount was paid to Focal Pointe for landscaping work completed between August and September 2022. This vendor prefers to send their invoices after completing several months of service.
	Capital Improvements – In September, the Library District incurred a total of $188,153 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $126,945 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building through August 2022.
The Library Board approved of the October 2022 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Sanditz).
DIRECTOR & CEO’S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following report.
Library Update
	The Dashboard report for September was shared.  Total circulation is 19% lower than September of 2021. The decrease in total circulation can be attributed to the new 21-day checkout period with a limit of three renewals, which was implemented as part of the merged catalog with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL).  Circulation of eMedia has increased by almost 40% from pre-pandemic levels, with a total of 244,494 eMedia checkouts. Last month, 90% of eMedia was checked out through the Overdrive platform and Libby app, with 9% coming from Hoopla and the remaining 1% coming from Kanopy, Flipster, and Biblioboard.  The Library had 18,387 patrons register for a library card in September 2022. This includes 400 patrons who registered for a card online. A total of 14,865 of these cards were created for the ConnectEd program. To date, twenty-three districts have applied for ConnectEd library cards for their students. In addition, our employees issued 197 SLCL cards to SLPL residents and 520 SLPL cards were issued to SLCL residents.  The report also includes information on visits, PC usage, new patron registrations, programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2, Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, and Maximize Access 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth said Raena Morrison and Connie Wilson, representatives of Innovative Interfaces, Inc. (III), visited St. Louis and met with administrators, managers, and employees on October 4 to gain a better understanding of the challenges encountered with the stability and functionality of the new Polaris integrated library system.  Our employees provided honest and candid feedback with the III team.  The conversations led to a greater understanding of how some of the system stability and functionality issues impact employees at all levels.  Several priorities were identified and some solutions have already been implemented.  We will continue to work closely with III to resolve any outstanding issues with the system.  In addition, ITS and System Administration have been working closely with Innovative Interfaces to troubleshoot Polaris issues that caused widespread, intermittent outages the week of October 3rd. Over 125 reports were counted, and the issues were also happening at SLPL. Innovative moved to a secondary firewall on Friday, Oct 7th. The outages have ceased, but we continue to work with Innovative to provide information in case of recurrence. (Plan: Maximize Access: 1.1)
	She said the patrons and employees at the Library contributed 23,962 diapers to help the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank reach their goal of 150,000 diapers for the “Fill the Warehouse” drive. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Storytelling Festival committee presented a very successful 43rd Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival, which took place from October 13-22, 2022. As you know, St. Louis County Library is the new home for the Festival, which featured seven storytellers traveling to St. Louis from all across the nation for events.  The events were very well attended and the school visits and visits to senior living facilities were very well received.  Over 50 people attended the senior visits and almost 7,500 children and teens attended the school visits.  Over 100 people attended the kickoff event at the History Museum, Tales After Dark at Florissant Valley had over 70 attendees, and the Storytelling Showcase at the J had over 200 attendees.  The Committee, consisting of Becky Maue, Eric Button, Nicole Clawson, Sarah Wood, Carrie Robb, Rebecca Clarke, Melissa Bauer, and Sarah Jones did an incredible job blending the traditions of the past 42 years of the festival with fresh new ideas that appealed to a whole new audience.  Jennifer McBride and her team in Communications did a phenomenal job promoting the event to the community.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Three new resources were added recently: LOTE Online, Transparent Language, and Interplay Learning. LOTE Online is an online database of digital picture books which provides unlimited access to over 1600+ book titles in 50+ World Languages together with English translations. Since LOTE online launched on September 1st, 104 stories have been watched with German, Arabic, and Canadian French having the most views. Transparent Language is a language-learning online resource that builds listening, reading, speaking, and writing skills with unlimited access to more than 120 languages.  Interplay Learning is the world’s first online, on-demand skilled trades training catalog featuring VR and 3D simulations where patrons can safely learn skilled trades. St. Louis County Library will be the first in the area to provide this type of resource.  We are reaching out to various organizations and Ranken Technical College to discuss partnerships to promote this new resource. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.2, 2.4, 3.1, and 3.2, Sense of Community 1, 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library welcomed 675 people to the Little Readers Festival on Saturday, September 24 at the Florissant Valley Branch. This was the first year the event was held at this branch. It was very successful with a lot of happy families. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 2.1, Sense of Community 2.3)
	The Library had an outreach booth at Tower Grove Pride. Library employees talked with 1,357 people at the SLCL booth. Festival organizers placed us directly between the SLPL and The Municipal Library Consortium’s booths, creating Library Row. Folks loved hearing about library services and the upcoming Storytelling Festival. Employees were able to sign up over fifty people for new library cards. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 2.2, Maximize Access 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3)
	She said Reference Specialist Louise Cheli has been visiting colleges in the St. Louis County community to offer resident, reciprocal, or special library cards, depending on the student's, faculty's, or staff's place of residence and eligibility. Louise started visiting colleges in late August as back to school time started across the County. Between late August and September, Louise has visited Missouri Baptist University, University of Missouri - St. Louis, St. Louis Community College – Florissant Valley, St. Louis Community College - Meramec, St. Louis Community College - Forest Park, Maryville University, Webster University, and Logan University, and is also working with reciprocity counties at colleges like St. Louis University, Harris-Stowe University, Lindenwood University and St. Charles Community College. This effort has created 254 new St. Louis County Library cards/users and updated many other accounts as she met with students. Outside of signing students, faculty, and staff up for cards, Louise is presenting the Library's electronic resources, focusing on how SLCL resources can work in tandem with the resources at the college library. Louise has met business faculty and university career counselors to showcase how our resources can help in the areas of business (including starting a small business) and career exploration. The future of Academic Outreach will be to work with college librarians on presenting workshops to students on library resources and doing professional development with college faculty on how SLCL resources can be implemented in their courses alongside the college library's resources. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4, Sense of Community 2.1, Maximize Access 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 3.2 and 3.5)
	Ms. Sorth said that in November, in-person National Novel Writing Month programming will resume after a two-year hiatus, with 8 drop-in writing sessions and the annual Evening of Scribing Recklessly to be held at Mid-County on Saturday, November 19. Additionally, the Library will continue to partner with the St. Louis Chapter of NaNoWriMo to host virtual events, with a kickoff event on Thursday, October 27 and weekly Come Write In events on Tuesday evenings in November. We hope the variety of opportunities will continue to build the growing audience for our writing programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.1)
	The Adult Services and History and Genealogy Departments are teaming up for a special event called Beercember: A Celebration of St. Louis Brewing History. Patrons will have the opportunity to sample from local breweries while attending short lectures about the history of St. Louis' brewing culture and a round table discussion with brewers from Narrow Gauge, Second Shift, and Third Wheel Breweries. It will also feature a home brew demonstration and live Americana music played by The Gaslight Squares. Beercember is being planned to commemorate the anniversary of the end of Prohibition and will be held at 6:00 pm at Daniel Boone Branch on Friday, December 9th. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Ms. Sorth said the Small Business and Nonprofit Expo took place the week of October 3-7. The Expo, for the first time, was held over five days at five different branches.  Bridgeton Trails, Samuel Sachs, Natural Bridge, Cliff Cave, and Grant’s View branches hosted one day each, welcoming many small business owners, entrepreneurs, nonprofit leaders, and aspiring entrepreneurs/nonprofit leaders, including teens, across St. Louis. The Expo was made up of mostly in-person sessions at the branches, with options of a few virtual sessions each day.  The Library hosted 39 programs with 246 total in attendance. Patrons commented on how happy they were to see the Expo at their home branch and across multiple days. New to this year’s Expo was a Credit Fair where patrons could have their credit reports pulled for the three main credit bureaus, receive a credit summary, and have time to meet with a credit counselor to talk about their scores and how to build their credit. This offering was free and open to any interested patron. The Credit Fair was funded by St. Louis Regional Financial Empowerment Coalition and Commerce Bank, where we had ten people pre-register and were able to help four additional on-site with an appointment. Also new this year was one-on-one appointments with a SCORE mentor.  Patrons were able to network with one another and with presenting organizations, making many important connections for the future of their businesses. We worked with many wonderful partners including Reference Solutions, Prosperity Connection (St. Louis Builds Credit), SBA, SCORE, United Way of Greater St. Louis, Small Business Empowerment Center, Alliance Credit Union, STL World Trade Center, Brownpreneuers, Grow with Google, St. Louis Regional Financial Empowerment Coalition, Beyond Housing, Commerce Bank, Legal Services of Eastern Missouri, Statista, and Vetbiz. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4, 3.1, 3.2, and 3.4, Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.1 and 1.4)
	The Acquisitions Department has subscribed to two products offered by Baker and Taylor, the Library’s main supplier of materials, that will help our Collection Development Specialists assess the diversity in purchases for the Library’s collection as well as suggest titles that will broaden and diversify our collection of materials reflecting the diversity of our patrons. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1, Sense of Community 1)
	She said the Youth Services Department is thrilled to offer their Kindergarten Prep program in person again at all of the Library’s branches.  This program helps caregivers and children prepare for the transition to kindergarten.  The Library’s Early Literacy Coordinator works directly with the children and their caregivers by modeling and discussing the social emotional expectations in kindergarten such as sharing and following multi-step instructions.  Families who participate will receive a free backpack, a book and school supplies. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Ms. Sorth said that some of the Library’s patrons are experiencing a barrier to library access due to their housing situation or lack of a permanent address. She said the Library has developed new procedures that will allow patrons to obtain a library card with fewer restrictions. Patrons with a photo ID of any kind, can register for a card without providing an address. The ID does not need to be state issued. Work badges, student IDs and other forms of photo ID will be accepted. Patrons without an ID may have the card mailed to places like a cooperating agency, PO Box, or a family member’s address. Area service agencies may also provide a letter on behalf of the patron that can serve as identification, proof of address or both.  These procedures were developed with input from the St. Louis County Continuum of Care, a dedicated alliance of community leaders and agencies working to prevent, reduce, and end homelessness. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.3, 3.3, Sense of Community 1.1, 1.4, 2.2, Maximize Access 1.1 and 1.4)
	Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives, created a map that shows the distribution of GrandPads per County Council District.  I shared this information with all Councilmembers. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1)
	We continue to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of September 23, 2022.   (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Ms. Sorth said that Kara Smith, the Library’s photographer has moved on to a new position with BJC.  The new photographer, Lucas Peterson, started two weeks ago and was on hand to take pictures at various Storytelling Festival events.  Here are pictures from the Little Readers’ Festival and several Storytelling Festival events.   (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Sandy Williams is the Library’s United Way Campaign Coordinator.  This year, our generous employees are donating $15,522 to the United Way. (Plan: Sense of Community 2)
	Employees Relations Coordinator, Tarza Tawfiq, will begin working to recruit prospective employees to work at the Library. The key factor will be to attract talent by highlighting the Library’s benefits, mission, commitment and impact to the region. The first steps are to improve the current job postings by updating the descriptions to have current industry standards and terminology and adding introductory statements that highlight the Library’s awards and service to the region. Tarza will utilize new and creative outlets for posting jobs online and will attend career fairs and expos to reach a qualified and diverse applicant pool. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 1.2)
	The Pumpkin Decorating Contest and the Fall into Fitness Challenge are back for employee participation.  Last year, we received 48 decorated pumpkin submissions from employees and hope to have a similar turnout this year. The Employee Engagement Committee will continue to promote these programs to our employees. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2)
	Library Managers and Assistant Managers have started working on the performance evaluation process. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will be participating in the Coro Fellows Program at the University of Missouri – St. Louis.  Since 1973, the Coro Fellows Program has equipped emerging civic leaders in the St. Louis region with the resources they need to understand how decisions are made, how complex policies are shaped, and how to influence meaningful change. Using the community as a classroom, Coro Fellows learn through interactions with private, public, and nonprofit decision-makers and work as a group to develop critical thinking, analytical, governance, and leadership skills. Coro Fellows join an unparalleled community of engaged alumni and leave the program with an understanding of how our region works and with the knowledge, skills, and network to make it better.  Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives, will oversee the Library’s fellow, Ch’aska Farber who is here today.  Ch’aska Farber is from Santa Cruz, California. She attended St. Olaf College in Minnesota where she majored in Sociology, Anthropology and Race and Ethnic Studies. Ch’aska can’t wait to utilize her passion for the human experience to help guide her social and civil justice work in the future. Ch’aska will be with us from October 24 – November 11.  She will help us create a method/guidelines to help us decide when to sunset a project, service, or initiative.  We do so many things at the Library and in order to ensure that we have the capacity to do all those things with excellence, we need to be strategic and intentional about how we allocate our resources and time. Chaska Farber came forward and thanked the board for allowing her to participate. Said she is excited to learn about all the programs. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1, 1.4, 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	She said the Administration, in consultation with Lashly Baer, is reviewing an Administrative Rule that has been filed by Secretary of State, Jay Ashcroft.  The public library community, including SLCL, is very concerned and has many questions about the below rule.  This proposed administrative rule will be published in the Missouri Register on November 15, 2022, and then have a 30-day comment period.  More information will be shared with the Library Board and employees as it becomes available. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1, 2.1, 3.3, Sense of Community 2)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Library received a check from Ameren in the amount of $22,800 for energy incentives met during design and construction of the Beck. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Foundation will host a 1980s themed St. Louis County Library 75th Anniversary Celebration and fundraising event on November 17, 2022 at the Sheldon.  Local entertainer, Brian Owens, will perform.  All Library employees will be invited to attend at a much reduced rate of $7.50.   The Advancement Team is currently working to secure sponsorships for the event.  I am recommending that the Library close at 5:00 p.m. on this date to allow more employees to attend the event.  (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4, 3)
	The Foundation, Library Administration and Lashly Baer are reviewing the Affiliation Agreement, the Foundation’s Bylaws and the Shared Services Agreement to make sure they are up-to-date, reflect current practices and are in agreement.  Both the Affiliation Agreement and the Shared Services Agreement will be brought to both the Foundation Board and the Library Board for review and approval before the end of this year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3)
Author Events
October and November Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	Roshani Chokshi, Evelyn Skye, and Sandhya Menon, authors of “Three Kisses, One Midnight,” Monday, October 24, 2022, 7:00 p.m. Virtual Livestream Event on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	George Saunders, author of “Liberation Day,” Wednesday, October 26, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Skip Viragh Center for the Arts at Chaminade, 425 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131. Doors open at 6:00 p.m. Tickets go on sale September 9 at 9:00 a.m. and can be purchased through   Sports Historian Ed Wheatley, author of “St. Louis Sports Memories: Forgotten Teams and Moments From America’s Best Sports Town,” Thursday, October 27, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Road, St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Award-Winning Professor of Animal Behavior, Joan E. Strassmann, author of “Slow Birding: The Art and Science of Enjoying the Birds in Your Own Backyard,” Wednesday, November 2, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd, St. Louis, MO 63123. In conversation with Dr. Jonathan Losos, Washington University-Professor of Evolutionary Biology and director of the Living Earth Collaborative.
	Matthew Quick, author of “We Are the Light,” Friday, November 4, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd. Ellisville, MO 63011. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Award-Winning Poet and Essayist, Ross Gay, author of “Inciting Joy: Essays,” Monday, November 7, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Ethical Society of Saint Louis, 9001 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, MO 63117.  Robert Crais, author of “Racing the Light: An Elvis Cole and Joe Pike Novel,” Wednesday, November 9, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.  Ausma Zehanat Khan, author of “Blackwater Falls,” Monday, November 14, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.
	Jeffrey Deaver, author of “Hunting Time,” Wednesday, November 30, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd, St. Louis, MO 63123.
Future Event Preview
	Thursday, December 1, 7:00 p.m. - Grant’s View Branch
Patrick McCarthy and Akif Cogo - Authors of “Bosnian St. Louis: Between Two Worlds” - Presented in partnership with Missouri Historical Society
	Thursday, December 8, 7:00 p.m. - SLCL Authors @ the J - Ticketed event (on sale Nov. 1) Billy Collins - two-time US Poet Laureate - author of “Musical Tables”
	ST. LOUIS TEEN BOOK FESTIVAL - Saturday, December 3, 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. - Ladue Horton Watkins High School
St. Louis County Library is thrilled to host the first in-person St. Louis area book festival celebrating teen readers. Presented in partnership with St. Louis independent bookstore The Novel Neighbor, the 2022 Teen Book Festival will host an incredible line-up of fifteen top young adult authors with a focus on both diverse voices and fun conversations. Featuring Jenna Evans Welch, Adrienne Young, Ryan La Sala, Dustin Thao, Bill Konigsberg, Randi Pink, and many others. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 1.3, Sense of Community 2.2)
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, preented pictures of the old headquarters site, pointing out that it has been demolished. Tons of dirt has been delivered to build up the site and assure that it will be level with Lindbergh Boulevard. Construction is expected to commence around the middle of January 2023 and conclude January 2024.
RESTATEMENT OF THE BYLAWS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Kristen Sorth reported that Articles I – VIII of the Bylaws of the Board of Trustees for the St. Louis County Library clarify the rules by which the Board of Trustees operate and govern the St. Louis County Library.  While many additions and revisions have been made to specific policies listed in the Appendix of the Bylaws, the Articles themselves have not been revised or restated since November of 2009.  The Articles have been reviewed by myself and the Library’s legal counsel.  Attached is a document outlining our suggested revisions, most of which involve the use of current titles, best practices and reflect the operation of a public library in 2022.  Those changes are reflected in red on the document.
There is one significant change under Article 5, Section 4 Budget.  We suggest adding new language that addresses an instance in which the Board of Trustees fails to adopt a budget for the following fiscal year by the December 31 deadline as required by the Bylaws.  The new language would allow the St. Louis County Library District to continue operating as a political subdivision of the State of Missouri with taxing authority as defined in State Statute.  The addition is reflected in red on the attached document and states, “If no such budgets are adopted by December 31, the budgets shall be the same as those from the preceding year until otherwise approved or modified by the Board.”
As stated under Article VIII, Amendments, these By-Laws may be amended, effective immediately, in whole or in part, at any regular or special meeting upon the affirmative vote of a majority (three) of the Board, provided the proposed amendment shall have been presented at one meeting preceding the vote thereon.
The restatement of the Bylaws will be included on the November, 2022 Library Board agenda as an action item for the Library’s Board’s consideration.
Deborah Patterson requested that administration add "in compliance with State Law."
ADJOURNMENT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Johnny Wang motioned to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss real estate (Section 610.021(2)); and legal matters (Section 610.021(1). Ted Sanditz seconded the motion. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson Meeting adjourned at 4:21 p.m.
Sincerely,
_______________________                                                  _____________________                                                                                                                                            Joan Barry, Secretary                                                                            Date