{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLJ8559FE5",
  "date": "2022-02-07T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, February 7, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary via telephone
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director, Advancement; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Paul Hampel, St. Louis County; and Lisa Stump, Attorney, Lashly Baer.
Others Attending:
Gina Sheridan, Keir Haug, Denise Chappell, Anne Arthur, Chasidy Allen, Anna Schurk, Andrew Freshwater, Jackie Hamilton, Sarah Brown Jacob Eubanks, Amy Hanaway, Devon Harris, Katie Keeven, Danielle Nenninger, Carrie Robb, Jennifer Gibson, Will LaChance, Cheri Remington, Emma Figueroa, Carla Maxwell, Anne Bradley, Stephanie Nordmann, Jennifer McBride, Chris Goodman, Hannah Axt, Rebecca Maue, Andrea Johnson, Mary Arnhart, Megan Phifer-Davis, Sri Upadhya and Sandy Williams
The Library Board approved of the December 20, 2021 minutes (Wang/Patterson).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who came forward to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
CFO Laura Taylor, presented the following:
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2021 is $58.9 million and is at 101% of the total budgeted amount.
	Other Grants – In December, the Library District received $21,166 in other grant revenue. Of this amount, $20,000 is from the St. Louis County Library Foundation for the 2021 Abbey Harris Fund. This fund is reserved for Library employee engagement.
Expense
	Programming – In December, the Library District incurred $35,292 in programming expense. Of this amount, $29,088 is related to a gift from Citi for the HeadStart program. This gift was received by the Foundation and the related expenses will be reimbursed to the Library in January 2022. The kickoff event for the program will take place on February 14, 2022.
	Grant Fulfillment Expense – In December, the Library District incurred a total of $12,945 in grant fulfillment expense. Of this amount, $6,250 was related to employee engagement expenses.  Year-to-date total grant expense is $147,205.
	Capital Improvements – In December, the Library District incurred a total of $2,173,074 in capital improvements expense after exhausting the last of the certificate of participation funds as planned. Notable expenses include:
		Pay application from Interior Construction Services for the construction performed through November 2021 at the Lynn Beckwith Jr Administrative Building for $1,200,744
		Pay application from Interior Construction Services for the construction performed through December 2021 at the Lynn Beckwith Jr Administrative Building for $702,131
Capital Projects Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet – 2016 Debt Issuance
	Construction in Progress – Total Construction in Progress for December 2021 was $279,763.  The expenses included payments for:
		Pay Application from Interior Construction Services for the construction performed through November 2021 at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building for $276,528.
The Library Board approved the February 2022 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Barry/Wang).
DIRECTOR & CEO’S REPORT
Director’s Report – February, 2022
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth reported that this month the Dashboard includes information on the Library’s 2021 statistics. The pandemic continued to impact the Library’s circulation, programs and services last year. The inside of the Library was closed to patrons for the first quarter of 2021.  Circulation increased 5.5% for the year but remained almost 30% lower than 2019.  In 2021, eMedia circulated more than any other type of library material with 2,895,452 items circulating.  This is 6% higher than eMedia circulation in 2020.  The Library welcomed patrons back inside the buildings in late March and saw 2,012,957 visitors in 2021.  This is an increase of 56% from 2020.  HQ had the most patron visits last year.
She said there were a total of 247,146 computer sessions in 2021.  The busiest branch for library computer usage was Lewis & Clark.  A total of 59,153 patrons registered for a new library card in 2021.  This includes 25,937 cards for school district students through the ConnectEd program.  There were a total of 4,981 virtual and in-person program sessions with 208,280 attendees. 108,763 patrons viewed the Library's 112 virtual author events. The most popular programs were Preparing College Applications, Foods St. Louis, and Tools for your Job Search.  There were six in-person author events with a total of 1,145 attendees.  Library employees in the Cataloging Department added 29,293 new titles in 2021 and the Processing department prepared 293,378 copies for circulation.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2)
	The Library moved to "masks required" for the public on January 5 with a change in St. Louis County guidelines.  Employees have always been required to wear masks. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	The Library was planning for a gradual launch of in-person programming in January but paused indefinitely due to the increased presence of COVID-19 in the region.   Ms. Sorth is hopeful that in-person programming can start in April.  This launch would follow the same parameters that were developed for the January launch.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	The Black History Committee, which includes Brenda West Ammons, Cindy Fehmel, Robert
Hall, Janelle Turner, Crystal Harris, Carla Maxwell, Nakisha Ford, Rebecca Clarke, Melissa Bauer and Sandy Williams has planned a fantastic month of programming, which includes virtual and in-person programs. The branches also scheduled some of their own programs.  A list of highlighted events is below; a full schedule of events is available at www.slcl.org/black-history-celebration.
Keynote Event:     CNN’s Senior Legal Analyst Laura Coates, author of “Just Pursuit: A Black Prosecutor’s Fight for Fairness” was here this past Friday, February 4, 7:00 p.m.  Brittany Tru Kellman, now known as Okunsola M. Amadou, received the Frankie Freeman Inspirational Award during the keynote program. Ms. Kellman is the Executive Director of Jamaa Birth Village in Ferguson, Missouri.
Author Event: Robert Child, "Immortal Valor: The Black Medal of Honor Winners of World War II," Tuesday, February 8, 7:00 p.m. on Facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
The Black Rep Presents “Stamping, Shouting and Singing Home,” Tuesday, February 15, 7:00 p.m. IN-PERSON at the Florissant Valley Branch (195 New Florissant Rd. South)
Inspired by the life of Sojourner Truth, this performance tells the story of her fictitious great-great-granddaughter Lizzie Walker, and her transformation from child to adult activist.
Author Event: Mashama Bailey and John O. Morisano, authors of "Black, White, and The Grey: The Story of an Unexpected Friendship and a Beloved Restaurant." Thursday, February 17, 7:00 p.m. Presented in partnership with Sauce Magazine.  IN-PERSON at Library Headquarters (1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd.)
Set the Night to Music, Friday, February 18, 7:00 p.m.  IN-PERSON at the Florissant Valley Branch (195 New Florissant Rd. South.) Enjoy a soulful performance and the smooth jazz styles of Robert Nelson & Renaissance. Registration required.
The Black Rep Presents “Waiting for Martin,” Tuesday, February 22, 7:00 p.m.  IN-PERSON at the Lewis & Clark Branch (9909 Lewis-Clark Blvd.)  Registration Required. A poignant and heartfelt tale of three homeless teens living in rural Alabama during the early sixties, patiently waiting for Dr. King to come, with the expectation that his visit would change their lives forever.
The Legacy of Dr. Venable, Thursday, February 24, 7:00 p.m. VIRTUAL
Celebrate the resilience of Dr. Howard P. Venable, an ophthalmologist and university professor who worked for equity in health, education, and legal justice.
Gift of Gospel, Saturday, February 26, 1:00 p.m., IN-PERSON at the Florissant Valley Branch (195 New Florissant Rd. South.) Registration required. Enjoy the melodious sounds of gospel music with Michelle Sargent, Daphne Rice-Bruce and Kathy Horry, and interpretive dance from Angelica LaGrone. Pastor Shaun Williams will serve as Master of Ceremonies. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that On Valentine’s Day, February 14, the Library will launch a new program called “The Love of Reading.” This program, made possible by a generous gift from Citi, will be offered at the Urban League’s Head Start location in Jennings.  The program is centered around read along books that have an audio player integrated into the cover of the book.  Dozens of titles will be provided to the Head Start over the course of the next several months.  Enough copies of each book will be provided to allow an entire class to read the same title.  They will also receive headphones which will allow the children to start and stop the read along story at their own pace.  In addition to a new selection of the read along books each month, the Head Start will enjoy monthly visits from the Sweet Reads bookmobile and a live story time presentation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, Sense of Community 2.1, and Maximize Impact 1.4)
	She said the Library is partnering with an organization named Saint Louis Story Stitchers Artists Collective to address issues of vaccine hesitancy.  Story Stitchers received grant funding to present story circles, which are short performances of poetry or music and a short recorded discussion between artists, physicians and community members.  The program is targeted at zip codes that have lower vaccination rates and higher vaccine hesitancy, including the 63136 area surrounding Lewis & Clark Branch.  Lewis & Clark will host an in-person story circle event on March 19. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and Sense of Community 2.1)
	Work is progressing with the Polaris ILS migration.  A test database has been created using actual records from our current Sierra database.  This database will be used during the extensive ongoing training.  Approximately 500 employees will receive training on various aspects of Polaris.  Most of the training is offered on site and in-person.  The in-person training will be supplemented by webinars and other virtual training sessions.  The Cataloging Department has been working closely with Innovative and St. Louis Public Library to ensure that all records that match between the systems will merge correctly.  Our go-live date is set for March 17.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3)
	Ms. Sorth presented to the County Council's Committee of the Whole on January 18 to discuss the GrandPad program.  She discussed the success of the program and shared data on usage, demographics, and distribution.  She asked the Council to consider providing the Library with ARPA funds for a second year of GrandPads and to fund additional units.  Last week, a bill was introduced by County Councilwoman, Lisa Clancy, to do just this.  If approved, the Library will receive $2 million in ARPA money from St. Louis County to fund a second year of GrandPads for the current recipients and to grow the program with an additional $1 million to add 1,500 new recipients.  The County Council will discuss the bill over the next few weeks but all indications are that this will be approved.  I have also discussed the GrandPad program with the State Library.  Both the State Library, and the Institute for Museum and Library Science, which is a federal organization, want to use this program as a national model to demonstrate how public libraries can support older adults. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and Maximize Impact 1.4)
	BioSTL reached out to include the Library in a grant for the community called the Good Jobs Challenge. The Good Jobs Challenge grant aims to move underrepresented, unemployed and underemployed people into jobs that pay a living wage, benefits, and provide growth opportunities. In the St. Louis area, BioSTL is leading the application and would be the hub organization that coordinates efforts. They are working with employers in healthcare and biotech who will commit to hiring people that will go through various types of training.  They have educational institutions on board to help with training and there is a community and inclusion piece where public libraries can play a role. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4, 3.1, and 3.2)
	A recent virtual program presented on January 27th was particularly successful.  Over sixty people attended during National Radon Action Month to learn more about the impacts of radon and the importance of testing. A panel of experts from the Missouri Coalition for Lung Cancer plus presenters personally impacted by radon answered many questions from attendees. Free radon test kits will also be mailed to over 70 patrons, thanks to the American Lung Association. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4)
	This spring, the Library has partnered with the St. Louis Audubon Society to host the Partners for Native Landscaping webinar series for the second year in a row. Over the course of nine programs from March 10 - April 6, the partners will share their expertise on native landscaping for backyards in our region. The partners include BiodiverseCity St. Louis, Grow Native!, the  Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District, the Missouri Department of Conservation, Shaw Nature Reserve, St. Louis Audubon Society, St. Louis Community College, and Wild Ones St. Louis Chapter. Last year’s series, between online attendance and YouTube views, had over 3,000 interactions. This year’s series will kick off with a keynote address from ecologist and best-selling author, Douglas W. Tallamy. His presentation, “Let It Be an Oak,” will be at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 10. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth said that individuals at the County Justice Center now have free, on-demand access to our virtual programs. Employees at the CJC downloaded the files from YouTube using a program to create condensed MP4 files, then add those video files onto loanable tablets. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and Maximize Impact 1.1)
	As mentioned previously, Gale, the Library’s provider for the virtual high school degree program, has a partnership with a new vendor for the program. The Career Online High School program is now the Excel Adult High School.  Like the previous program, Excel is self-paced with unlimited online tutoring and English Language Learning courses to support non-native English speakers. In addition to earning a high school diploma, students can choose to take up to seven college credit courses that can transfer to accredited colleges and universities.  This is a new benefit of the program. Success coaches and counselors provide assistance with course selection, college planning, and career guidance.  The Library plans to formally launch the new program in the spring.  We are so thrilled to have ninety-seven online high school graduates.  Here are quotes from our three latest graduates. Congratulations to them all! (Plan: Promote Literacy: 3.1 and 3.2)
		Luis (Office Management) - “The thing that inspires me to pursue my high school education is my children. I had to drop out of school because I had a son at 16. I want to prove to him and his sisters that an education is important. I also want to prove to myself that I can get an education and improve my family's life and mine.”
		Shante (Food & Hospitality Skills) - “My children gave me the courage to do this. Obtaining my diploma is something I always thought about and I kind of beat myself up for not doing it sooner. But like my son said, ‘Momma it's never too late’."
		Charlene (General Career Preparation) - “I want to go to college and pursue a career in a profession that I really want.”
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of February 1, 2022.  Weekly vaccination clinics at four branches – Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Florissant Valley and Rock Road are ongoing.  She said the library began offering COVID -19 test kits at Rock Road and Weber Road on January 24.  The response was overwhelming with 4,928 phone calls on the first day.  In comparison, we receive about 1,300 calls on a typical Monday.  Thanks to the great work of many including ITS, the phone system worked perfectly and Customer Connect and the branches were able to handle the volume by establishing a dedicated testing kit line.  Patrons calling the Library did not experience a busy signal and calls were automatically routed to the appropriate branch.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will be expanding the number of branches that offer COVID-19 test kits this week.  In addition to Rock Road and Weber Road, Lewis & Clark, Cliff Cave, Grant’s View, Oak Bend and Meramec Valley will all offer kits for curbside pickup.  Patrons will call to reserve a kit.
	There were many mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including:  Budding Artists: Paper Plate Tree, Grab & Go Meals at Weber Road, Noon Year's Eve Party and Animal Magic (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4 and Sense of Community 2.1)
Library Administrative Updates
	ITS is working closely with the construction team at The Beck and the Library’s telecom vendors on the installation of the various network services.  These services and the server room hardware must be in place before we can move the Library’s core network from HQ to The Beck.
	New PCs and monitors for deployment at The Beck have been received.  ITS is finalizing its purchasing efforts for various items like wireless access points, network cables and power adapters.
	Barbara Turkington, Assistant Director of Advancement, has announced her retirement effective February 28, 2022.  Barbara started working at the Library on November 1, 2011.  During her tenure, Barbara has transformed the St. Louis County Library Foundation Board.  She has increased the level of professionalism, goals, fundraising efforts and Friends of the Foundation.  Barbara oversaw the first Strategic Plan for the Foundation which significantly raised the amount of support provided by the Foundation to the Library for programs and services. She also implemented a spring and fall appeal to solicit regular donations by mail.   During her tenure, the Foundation created Alison Grants, which directly impacts public service by supporting innovative programs and pilots created by branch and HQ employees such as telescopes, sensory story time, musical instruments, seed packets, MetroMarket stops, cooking programs, ACT prep, and the list goes on!  In addition, the Foundation began under Barbara and continues to sponsor and support large Library programs such as Born to Read, meals for kids in partnership with Operation Food Search, Coding 101, Gift of Reading, Digital Equity Initiatives including hotspots, Chromebooks, and Playtime Learning Pads, COVID 19 projects, diapers and period supplies in partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank, Excel online high school (previously COHS) and this list goes on as well!  Barbara recognizes and communicates the value of these programs to the Foundation.  In addition to programs, Barbara has been the center of planning and implementation for all of the successful Foundation Galas from 2012 to present, which included a brand new concept, the Food Truck event in 2021.  These and other special events planned and implemented by Barbara and her team have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars to support library programs and services.  Barbara always makes sure these events are FUN and classy but that comes with a HUGE amount of work.  In a sea of hundreds of St. Louis galas, the Library Foundation's Gala stands out every year as a must-attend event because of Barbara.  And last but certainly not least, Barbara has worked tirelessly to make sure that the Library's amazing author event programs are world class.  She has overseen the implementation of visits from Al Gore, Tan France, Madeleine Albright, Salmon Rushdie, Valerie Jarrett, CJ Box, Roxanne Gay, HW Brands, Louise Penny, Bernice King, and Amy Tan in addition to hundreds of smaller events.  On a personal level, Barbara is first and foremost fun and hilarious but also kind and caring.  We are so happy for Barbara.  We know that her husband Bill can say "well finally" about her retirement but we are going to miss her. We know that we will still see her at the author events.
	I'm happy to announce that Jennifer Hyun-Lynn Gibson will start as the Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives on February 7th.  Jennifer is currently the Manager of Reference and also leads our work with small businesses and entrepreneurs in the region.  She has presented to the Library Board on several occasions.  Jennifer also has experience writing grants at both SLCL and her previous positions.  Jennifer joined SLCL as a Reference Librarian in November of 2016. She became the Assistant Branch Manager at Cliff Cave in 2017 and then was promoted to the Manager of Reference in 2018.  Jennifer and her team have greatly expanded the Library's work with small businesses and entrepreneurs and have placed a strong focus on women, people of color and immigrants.  As discussed previously with the Library Board, she also created the Small Business Calculator model that has been adopted by the Urban Libraries Council (ULC).  Jennifer recently co-presented with ULC about the return on investment tool at the Internet Librarian Conference.  She was also recently interviewed by Bloomberg’s CityLab about the value calculator and libraries supporting entrepreneurs.  That article came out last week. https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-01-28/libraries-expand-resources-to-support-diverse-entrepreneurs?srnd=citylab.  Prior to working for SLCL, Jennifer was a Reference Librarian at Jefferson College, an Administrative and Faculty Assistant at UCLA's Department of Information Studies, and a member of the Law Library Staff at the Pepperdine University School of Law. Jennifer holds a B.A. in Geological Sciences from the University of Southern California, a J.D. from Pepperdine University School of Law, and an MLIS from San Jose State University.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	At the April 2021 Board meeting, a proposal from Enel-X, an Ameren contractor, was presented. This no-cost proposal offered the Library a rebate for voluntarily reducing electric usage during peak demand times throughout the summer. In January the Library received a check for $2,495 for its participation in the program. We will continue to participate in 2022.
	Over the past few months a representative from Hanover, the Library’s liability insurance carrier, has been touring various branches in the system. Last week, we received a letter from Hanover declaring the buildings were well-maintained and that risks were well-controlled. There were no formal risk improvement recommendations issued. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
Library Foundation
	The Library hosted 111 virtual author events and six in-person events in 2021.  The most popular virtual events on Facebook were Kareen Rossser, Francesca Gino, Sally Hepworth, Amelia Pang and C.J. Box. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	We were recently notified of the following grant awards:
		Saigh Foundation, $5,000, for Oasis Intergenerational Tutoring
		Object Computing, $150,000, for the teen space and creative lab in the new Ladue Branch.  Their original donation was for $100,000 total.  This new donation makes their total gift $250,000. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
We have Livestream author events and recordings with the following authors. They are posted on our website as well as the HEC Facebook link - facebook.com/hectv and then archived at hecmedia.org. We are promoting on our social media and sending eblasts that direct patrons to the HEC sites. HEC has also started simultaneously premiering the virtual author events on their TV channel to expand access to those individuals who do not have reliable internet access. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3 and Maximize Impact 1.1)
February and March 2022 Author Events
	Robert Child, author of "Immortal Valor: The Black Medal of Honor Winners of World War II," Tuesday, February 8, 2022, 7:00 p.m.  Virtual on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Florence Williams, author of “Heartbreak: A Personal and Scientific Journey," Thursday, February 10, 7:00 p.m., Virtual on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	IN-PERSON EVENT Mashama Bailey and John O. Morisano, authors of “Black, White, and the Grey,” Thursday, Feb. 17, 2022, 7 p.m., Headquarters. Presented by St. Louis County Library’s 2022 Black History Celebration and Sauce Magazine.  The Library will close at 5:00 p.m.
	Nancy Castaldo, author of “When the World Runs Dry: Earth’s Water in Crisis,” Tuesday, February 22, 2022, 7:00 p.m. Virtual on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	IN-PERSON EVENT Charles Bosworth, Jr. and Joel J. Schwartz, authors of “Untangling the Betsy Faria Murder Case,” Saturday, February 26, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. In conversation with St. Louis Post Dispatch reporter Robert Patrick.
	IN-PERSON EVENT C.J. Box, author of “Shadows Reel: A Joe Pickett Mystery,” Wednesday, March 09, 2022 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.  The Library will close at 5:00 p.m.
	IN-PERSON EVENT Bestselling adventure author Ridley Pearson, author of “Kingdom Keepers Inheritance,” Monday, March 14, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.  The Library will likely close at 5:00 p.m.
	IN-PERSON EVENT  Bestselling Author, Brad Meltzer, author of “The Lightning Rod: A Zig and Nola Novel,” Friday, March 18, 2022, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters
Barbara Turkington thanked the Board for the opportunity and honor to work for the Library for the past 10 years. Immediately following, Jennifer Gibson was introduced as the Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives.  She made brief comments to the Board and thanked Kristen Sorth. She said she was excited about working in the new position.
Deborah Patterson requested more information on BIOSTL (Better Job Challenge Grant). Jennifer Gibson answered that it's about community engagement and inclusion. They will make sure everyone is engaged and include some lunch and learn events. There will be career fairs to educate the attendees about library and community resources. She said the program would speak to our adult high school graduates.
Dr. Beckwith thanked Barbara Turkington for supporting the library during some turbulent times in the early days of her time here. He said she was a steady rock during the transition. He thanked her for all her good work for the Library.
Dr. Beckwith thanked the Black History Committee, for the richness of the programs this year, both virtual and on-site. He said the committee did well with virtual and in-person programming. He said well done to the committee and he hoped the Library would continue to have virtual programs.
Ted Sanditz said Ms. Turkington made a huge difference with the Foundation Board. She was here to help us grow over a million dollar budget. He thanked her for educating him on being a good fund raiser.
Deborah Patterson thanked Barbara Turkington for all her efforts in making the author events so great. Ms. Patterson said Ms. Turkington helped her to strengthen her relationship with the community. She said she believes that she wouldn't be on the Board without her.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
POLARIS LEAP
Deputy Director Eric Button shared information about the forthcoming catalog merger with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL) and the migration to a new ILS and catalog. The catalog merger will more than double the number of items patrons can access. He gave a brief overview of the Polaris LEAP system. He said the Library will be offline for 8 days due to the merging of the St. Louis Public Library and St. Louis County Library catalog. March 17th is the go-live day. Polaris LEAP is a web-based system, making it accessible through any browser using login credentials. There is a single search box on the screen that allows employees to search for all kinds of different information, thus greatly simplifying the search process. Users can navigate seamlessly through the use of hyperlinks. Functions such as the picklist can be performed on tablets and won’t be tied to paper. Outreach becomes far more flexible.  Patrons will enjoy ease of searching through the catalog using Vega Discover.  Vega Discover integrates Overdrive and Hoopla content into the search results.  The system is very user-friendly.
Deborah Patterson said it was exciting that it has begun. Dr. Beckwith asked how staff would be trained. Mr. Button responded that it has already begun and includes III staff and our own staff through both in-person training and webinars. Dr. Beckwith also asked how we would notify patrons that we would be offline for a week.  Mr. Button said that the Communication Department is working toward notifications now.
March 28th is the official announcement date and both Library Boards will be invited to the announcement event, along with the County Executive and Mayor of St. Louis.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Assistant Director of Operations, Steve Hunter, reported that great progress is being made at the Beck. Carpet, baseboards and ceilings are now installed. Cabinetry and counter tops are installed. The docks are working as designed.
He said he anticipates starting to move in early April. The move will take about five weeks.  Demolition on HQ should take place in July.
INVESTMENT OF 2022 OPERATING FUNDS
Annually, the Library District receives most of the cash from property taxes early in the year. To maximize the amount of interest received, Library Administration will issue a request for investment rate quotes from several area financial institutions. The financial institution that submits the highest yield for the total portfolio of investments will be awarded the dollars to invest.
Typically, the Collector of Revenue issues a January distribution of property tax revenue at the end of the month. Knowing the total amount of the distribution is important as it helps to determine the total amount to invest. As such, the request for investment rate quotes was not issued until January 28, 2021, with responses due back by February 5, 2021. It is important for the Library to invest soon after the quotes are received to take advantage of the yield for the total portfolio. The total portfolio to invest in 2021 is $34 million.
Unfortunately, the interest rate environment remains low, and no banks were able to offer a rate higher than our current nightly sweep rate. Commerce Bank will continue to sweep our account nightly. Market rates will be monitored throughout the year to determine if another RFQ should be issued.
LAWN MAINTENANCE
Assistant Director of Operations, Steve Hunter presented.
On January 18, 2022, Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid for Lawn Maintenance at all library locations. The scope includes mowing, trimming, and fertilizing all lawn areas for the system. The document was posted on the SLCL website and directly emailed to sixteen local firms, including the seven M/WBE firms that identified as lawn care providers. Responses were due January 31, 2022. Six firms responded.
Firms were asked to provide pricing for three services: 1) mowing, trimming, and edging lawns, 2) fall leaf removal, and 3) a full-year fertilization program. The chart below shows the annual cost of all services based on 32 mowings, two leaf cleanups, and full-year fertilization:
			Firm
			Annual Cost
			Focal Pointe Outdoor Solutions, Inc.
			$110,645
			SureCut Solutions
			$130,320
			Ideal Landscaping Group
			$151,582
			General Lawn LLC
			$211,950
			St. Louis Lawn Care, Inc.
			$248,795
			True Cut Lawn Services & Landscaping LLC
			$251,020
The responses were reviewed by Steve Hunter and Matt Manwarring, the Manager of Building Systems. It was determined that Focal Pointe Outdoor Solutions, Inc. submitted the lowest and best bid for the work. Focal Pointe currently holds the contract for Landscaping and we are very pleased with their quality of work.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Focal Pointe Outdoor Solutions, Inc. to provide Lawn Maintenance services to the Library District for all locations for the amount of $110,645 per year, and that it authorize the Director to enter into and execute a 2-year contract to that effect.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Wang).
DRUPAL 9 UPGRADE & WEB HOSTING
Communications Manager, Jennifer McBride reported to the Board.
The current version of the Library District’s website was launched in 2017 and is running on Drupal 7, a platform that will reach end of life on November 28, 2022. The St. Louis County Library Foundation’s website is also built on Drupal 7 and will also be upgraded as part of this process.
Web Coordinator, Jen Messmer, developed a comprehensive Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for the Drupal 9 Upgrade & Web Hosting project. The RFQ detailed the Library’s specific requirements. Lashly Baer was involved in this process. The RFQ was published on December 3, 2021. It was posted on the Library’s website and emailed to select vendors. Responses were due January 4, 2022.
The Library received six RFQ responses. Jen Messmer and Jennifer McBride reviewed each organization's qualifications and decided the following firms were the most responsive per the Library’s Policy II for Professional Services. The policy states that services shall be provided by the firm that demonstrates competence, is most qualified and has fair and reasonable fees.
			Company
			Upgrade, Hosting and Support Fees
			Promet Source
			203,699
			Interpersonal Frequency (IF)
			211,050
			ImageX
			274,793
Interpersonal Frequency (I.F.) is the preferred choice of vendor. Selecting I.F. will save project time and cost, as they are the current provider of both the St. Louis County Library (SLCL) and St. Louis County Library Foundation (SLCLF) website and hosting. I.F. designed the current Library and Foundation websites, and as a result, there is the potential to skip the site defining and design phases. Additionally, I.F. provides an in-house hosting solution, and as our current provider, has a complete understanding of the site requirements. SLCL can easily work with I.F. to troubleshoot issues with the website and hosting in one place. ImageX and PrometSource rely on third party vendors for a hosting solution.
Library Administration recommends the selection of Interpersonal Frequency for the Drupal 9 upgrade and web hosting at a cost of $211,050, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. We have determined that Interpersonal Frequency is the best qualified firm in accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services, which lists the following evaluation factors: (a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required; (b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required; (c) the past experience with references for comparable work; (d) insurance required such as professional liability; and e) reasonable fee for the type of work needed.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Wang).
INDIAN TRAILS BRANCH NAME
Director and CEO Kristen Sorth reported to the Board.
Library Administration is seeking approval to rename the Indian Trails Branch to the proposed new name Parkview Branch.  Indian Trails opened in 1987 and underwent a complete renovation in 2015.  At the time that the branch was designed and originally opened, the name was selected based loosely on the history of the region.  The Overland Trail passed nearby the location of the branch and it connected travelers from Kentucky and Tennessee to other trails in the region.  The affiliation with Indigenous Americans is not as clearly documented, other than the general understanding that they moved through the region historically.
The Library has intentionally examined many of its practices, services and names to ensure that they align with our current values related to diversity, equity, and inclusion.  In the process of examining the name “Indian Trails Branch,” we felt the naming of the branch should be reevaluated.  According to Library records, the name “Indian Trails” was not derived with input from Indigenous Americans or from any specific historical connection.  In light of this information, Administration sought to identify a new name for the branch located at 8400 Delport Dr. in Vinita Park.
Administration solicited ideas for a new branch name from Library employees, including the employees at the branch.  Several options were considered, but the name “Parkview Branch” was selected as the most suitable name.  The Library Board of Trustees has the sole right to name or rename Library facilities, interior and exterior spaces. Typically, the names of community branches are chosen to reflect their geographic location and to identify them with the neighborhoods they primarily serve. The suggested name was chosen based on the fact that the branch sits just north of a community park in the town of Vinita Park.
Once approved, Administration will develop a plan for updating the branch name wherever it is found.  This includes but is not limited to the website, printed materials, the building sign, and the monument sign.  The name Parkview Branch will be the official name of the branch moving forward, but the physical and digital changes will require some time to complete the changeover.
Library Administration recommends the approval of the name change from Indian Trails Branch to Parkview Branch, effective immediately. The Library Board approved the recommendation Sanditz/Patterson.
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Johnny Wang made a motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss Section 610.021(12)(negotiated contracts) in addition to (1)(legal) matters (Section 610.021(1)). Deborah Patterson seconded.  All gave voice approval.
Meeting adjourned at 4:41 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_________________________________                                          _____________
Joan Barry, Board Secretary                                                               Date