{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLVF56DAE8",
  "date": "2022-11-21T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, November 21, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang. Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary,
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHER ATTENDING:
Katie Keeven, Jennifer McBride, Nama Chibitty, Lori Boschert, Carla Maxwell, Kat Van Arsdale, Anna Schurk, Rachel Dippel, Brent Trout, Anna Maria Gonzalez, Lisa Haddox, Stephanie Nordmann, Carrie Robb, Will LaChance, Ross Brand, Amy Hanaway, Terence McCoy, Andrew Freshwater, Sri Upadhya, Alaina Culbertson, Michelle Beck, Alicia Lee, Andrea Carter, Allison Wisniewski, Emily Althoff, Nicole Clawson, Miriam Whatley, Heather Neill,, Melissa Bauer, Donna Spaulding, Annie Fuller, Terri Williams, Jackie Hamilton, Laura Kasak and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the October 24, 2022 minutes (Wang/Sanditz).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no visitors present to speak before the Board.
REPORTS
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following information.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $57.9 million and is at 101% of the total revised budgeted amount. The Library District will continue to receive a small amount of 2022 tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Grants – In October, the Library District received $47,474 in state grants. This amount consists of $25,333 for the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Strengthening Missourians Grant that is being used for Brainfuse, $20,000 for the LSTA Library Automation Grant, and $2,141 for the LSTA Summer Reading Grant.
Expense
	Equipment Service Agreements – In October, the Library District incurred a total of $25,494 of equipment service agreements expense. Of this amount, $19,335 was paid to Today’s Business Solutions Inc. for the simple scan agreement.
	Technology – Maintenance Agreements – In October, the Library District incurred a total of $47,405 of technology – maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $39,483 was paid to Convergeone Inc. for a one year Meraki license.
	Capital Improvements – In October, the Library District incurred a total of $494,856 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $365,123 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch.
Administration recommends approval of the November 2022 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Sanditz).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Kristen Sorth reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for October.  Total circulation is 17% lower than October of 2021.  She said the decrease in total circulation can be attributed to the new 21-day checkout period with a limit of three renewals, which was implemented as part of the merged catalog with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL).  Circulation of eMedia has increased by 32% from pre-pandemic levels, with a total of 242,296 eMedia checkouts.  Visits continue to increase over 2021 with 273,212 visits in October which is 14% higher than this time last year.  The report also includes information on visits, PC usage, new patron registrations, programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2, Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, and Maximize Access 1.1)
	She shared that on November 9th, Innovative Interfaces migrated both St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library to a new hosted server. The migration was completed in order to improve the speed of the Polaris software.  Following the update, searches and large updates are being completed faster.  While the November upgrade involved server hardware, the two Library Districts have also scheduled an update to Polaris software for the beginning of 2023.  Innovative will update the Library’s training server to Polaris 7.3 in December, and the library will be using the new software on the production server on January 12.  The month between the two updates will provide the Library with time to test out the server, and to ensure everything is running smoothly.  System Administration has released a new website to inform employees about future enhancements and updates that will be available in each new update. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	She announced that the patrons and employees at the Library contributed 25,107 diapers to help the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank reach their goal of 150,000 diapers for the “Fill the Warehouse” drive.  St. Louis County Library was named Partner of the Year by the Diaper Bank.  Public Services Administrator, Emily Althoff, and several Branch Managers and Assistant Branch Managers, accepted the award at an event at the Diaper Bank. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth said the 43rd Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival was a resounding success.  Nearly 7,500 adults, children, and teens experienced one or more of the events during the festival which ran from October 13-22, 2022.  Surveys completed by attendees indicated that 70% were attending the Festival for the first time.  The planning committee is hard at work planning for the 44th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival in October 2023. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Winter Reading Challenge will run from December 1-January 31.  All ages are encouraged to participate.  If a participant completes at least five activities, they will be entered in an electronic prize raffle.  Examples of prizes include: fort building kits, gift cards and Yeti mugs and coolers. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth said that St. Louis County Library is thrilled to host the first in-person St. Louis area book festival celebrating teen authors and readers.  The St. Louis Teen Book Festival will feature book talks, author panels, signings and many other enjoyable activities.  Presented in partnership with the St. Louis independent bookstore The Novel Neighbor, the 2022 Teen Book Festival will host an incredible line-up of top young adult authors with a focus on both diverse voices and fun conversations.  The public festival will take place on Saturday, December 3 from 1:00-5:00 p.m. at Ladue Horton Watkins High School.  Many of the authors will be making school visits on Friday, December 2.  The Library will also host an Educator Night on December 2nd at the Daniel Boone Branch where registered teachers and librarians can meet the authors and get books signed.  The Communications Department is working on promotional materials for the event as well as sharing information on social media and through an eBlast to patrons.  Extensive media outreach will also take place starting with a press release that was sent on Friday, November 11. Nicole Clausen, manager of Youth Services, spoke to the Board about the Teen Festival. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, 2.3, Sense of Community 1, 2.2, Maximize Access 1.4, 3.2)
	She said the fall series of Book Buddies ended on November 9th.  This program matches kids in grades K-3 with teen volunteers, and they spend 30 minutes reading aloud weekly for six weeks.  It was held in person for the first time since 2019 at Bridgeton Trails, Grand Glaize, Grant’s View, Jamestown Bluffs and Natural Bridge branches.  There was also a virtual session over Zoom.  In total, 108 kids and 85 teens participated, which is the highest participation since the program began in 2018. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 2.1, Sense of Community 2.2, 2.3)
	More than 1,000 patrons of all ages registered for this year’s Fall into Fitness Challenge, with 425 completions.  Over 40% of participants completed the challenge.  Participants logged either 30 miles of walking or 900 minutes of activity on paper logs or online.  Winners were selected earlier this month, with prizes including $100 gift cards to REI and Dick’s Sporting Goods. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	She said that earlier this year, Adult Services partnered with the St. Louis County Justice Center to provide our recorded virtual programs to residents of the Justice Center. The St. Louis County Justice Center houses up to 800 people. The average length of stay is 40 days. Using a free YouTube downloader, the Corrections Compliance Supervisor selects videos from our YouTube page and uploads them to tablets. Every resident is issued a tablet when they arrive at the Justice Center, and all library programs selected by the Compliance Supervisor are available on the tablet. As of early October, the County Justice Center has uploaded over 60 videos from the Library’s YouTube page. The residents are always excited when new library videos become available. As of July, the Library’s programs have been viewed over 60,000 times. The most requested programs include history, gardening, cooking classes, meditation, and yoga, which Adult Services offers on a regular basis. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, 3.4, Sense of Community 1.1, 1.4, 2.1, 2.2, Maximize Access 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth said that the new SLCL partnership with the Kranzberg Arts Foundation has kicked off with much success. The Jazz Jam series, hosted at Lewis & Clark, has had great attendance - between 50 and 70 for both sessions. Host Harvey Lockheart of the HEAL Center for the Arts makes this Library program feel like a party, with great audience participation. The next Jazz Jam will take place on December 1st at 6:00 p.m. The High Noon series, held on the second Monday of each month, has brought in some incredible creative minds with attendance around 15. On December 12 at noon, attendees will hear author Ron A. Austin discuss how re-imagining neighborhoods and structures in North St. Louis City informs his reality-based fiction. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1, 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	In January, Reference will work with Nancy Jones, Career and Leadership Educator, Ellen Sherberg, Journalist and former Publisher of St. Louis Business Journal, and Lynne Kipnis, Clinical Psychologist, on a program series called “Back to Work Series: 60+ Employment Resources.” This series will have multiple sessions that run through January and end with a job fair. This series will take place at Thornhill. Ellen reached out to me about this idea and our creative employees are enthusiastically planning the events. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, 3.2, Sense of Community 2.1, 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	She said the library continues to provide vital services to the region.  The Library now offers free gun locks (provided by Women’s Voices Raised for Social Justice through their “Lock it for Love” program) through two additional library locations.  Patrons may now request and receive gun locks free of charge from the Sweet Reads Vehicle and Jamestown Bluffs in addition to FV, LC, NB and WR.  Reusable period supplies, provided to the Library through Dignity Period, are now available to patrons at seven locations (FV, GG, LC, NB, PV, WR, and Sweet Reads).  Sweet Reads has added Covid test kits to their complement of offerings to the public–Covid test kits, provided to the Library through St. Louis County Health are now available at CC, FV, GV, LC, MV, OB, RR, WR and Sweet Reads. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, Maximize Access 1.1, 1.4)
	A chart that shows the Library’s accomplishments as of September 23, 2022 was shared. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month were shown including: Coding 101 at Mid-County, Tasty and Affordable Meals at Natural Bridge, Book Buddies at Grand Glaize, Story time Halloween at Cliff Cave, Author George Saunders at the Skip, Kindergarten Prep at Daniel Boone, TP the Teen Room at Grant’s View and Storytelling at a senior living facility. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said that Library employees, working directly with the public, often encounter challenging situations and incidents that they must navigate using their training and skills while applying the Library’s policies and procedures.  These situations are often stressful and require much time and energy on the part of managers, public safety specialists, and other frontline employees.  Employees may encounter threats or acts of violence, substance abuse, inappropriate computer use, medical emergencies, and unattended children to name a few.  Each situation requires individual assessment and application of policy and procedure, and these actions and decisions are typically made under duress.  Our employees perform admirably under these challenging circumstances and they act decisively in the interest of public and employee safety.  Administration is extremely appreciative of these efforts by our employees to make the patrons’ library visits safer and more enjoyable. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4)
	St. Louis County Councilwoman, Lisa Clancy, presented a resolution honoring the work of the St. Louis County Library.  The resolution was unanimously approved by the County Council.  Dr. Beckwith and I attended the St. Louis County Council Meeting on October 26 to accept the Resolution. (Plan: Promote Literacy, Sense of Community, Maximize Access)
	Ms. Sorth was asked to serve as a panelist for the St. Louis Business Journal’s Women’s Conference.  The in-person event will feature four women discussing “Lessons in Leadership”.  In addition to myself, the panel includes Kelly Diehl, Managing Principal, Cushman & Wakefield, Catherine Hanaway, Chair and Partner, Husch Blackwell and Amy Shaw, President & CEO, Nine PBS. (Plan: Maximize Access 3.1)
	Voter turnout at the Library for early voting and on election day surpassed the expectations of the St. Louis County Board of Elections.  There were long lines and parking complications as a result, but these were expertly handled by Library administrators, branch managers and employees.  We plan to meet with the Board of Elections to talk about lessons learned and to plan for the next election. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, Maximize Access 1.1, 2.4)
	The Library hosted the Connecting All Missourians regional meeting on November 16 at the Grand Glaize Branch at the request of the Office of Broadband Development within the Missouri State Department of Economic Development.  The goal of the listening session was to collect input and feedback around the topic of equitable access to broadband in Missouri.  The Office of Broadband is relying on Missouri's 19 Regional Planning Commissions (RPCs) to host.  We are in Region 3 and East-West Gateway is our RPC but they are unable to serve as the host.  St. Louis County Library is the only non-RPC to host in the State of Missouri.  More than 500 stakeholders were invited to participate in the meeting virtually or in person.  These meetings throughout the State will help inform the investment of $500 million that Missouri will receive in Federal funds.  This meeting was the first step in the process.  The Library will be participating and hosting additional events over the next several months. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1, Maximize Access 2.2)
	The contract with Hicks Carter Hicks (HCH) has been finalized.  We held a project kickoff meeting. HCH will perform an internal DEI needs assessment, beginning in January 2023 with interviews of Library administrators, board members, and managers.  A survey for all employees will follow.  Additional focus groups with library employees will also take place.  HCH will also conduct a thorough review of our HR policies, procedures and practices and provide recommendations at the conclusion of their study in June. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2, Maximize Access 2.4)
	The 2022 Staff Development Cohort held their final session on November 2. To conclude the Cohort’s professional development journey, they spent part of the day with Ms. Sorth and Eric Button. They also viewed a presentation with Andrea Jackson-Jennings, Managing Director of the Regional Response Team (RRT). The presentation gave an introduction to the RRT’s impact in the region and how the Library played a critical role as the pandemic started. Jackson-Jennings also talked about the importance of community trust and partnerships and highlighted the Library’s successful efforts in those areas. The last sessions are aimed at piecing together all the components of the Library’s organizational structure and workflow. The Cohort has been surveyed about their experience and that input will be used to make adjustments for next year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.3, Maximize Access 3.5)
	You Light Up the Library takes place at the St. Louis Zoo on Sunday, December 18 from 6:30-9:30pm. The family-friendly event is in celebration of Library employees and their contributions to the overall success of the Library. The celebratory event will have hot chocolate, hors d'oeuvres, cake and access to Zoo grounds for their annual Wild Lights. Wild Lights offers winter-related activities for kids, live entertainment, festive food and holiday beverages with dazzling light displays. Employees and their guests will have access to free parking at the North Lot. This event is hosted by the Employee Engagement Committee and funded by the Library Foundation. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Communications Department is creating a community resource brochure outlining the variety of programs and services available to the community.  We believe this will be a very valuable resource for many in our community.  The brochure will be shared with the Library Board when it is complete. (Plan: Maximize Access 3.2)
	The Pension Board met on November 14, 2022 and is recommending a change to the Pension Plan.  The formula used to calculate the earned benefit for an employee upon retirement has not changed since 1984, almost 40 years ago.  The Library Administration and the Pension Board are interested in updating the Employees’ Pension Plan to provide a more contemporary and better benefit for eligible Library employees.  The Library Board will review the Pension Board’s recommendation later in the meeting. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	Lockton, the Library’s HR consultant, conducted a salary review and has made a recommendation for merit raises and a structure adjustment to be effective January 1, 2023.  Those recommendations are included in the 2023 draft Library Budget which will be reviewed later in the meeting. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.2)
	The Administration has issued the following statement regarding the Administrative Rule that has been filed by Secretary of State, Jay Ashcroft.  The public library community, including SLCL, is very concerned and has many questions about the below rule.  This proposed administrative rule was published in the Missouri Register on November 15, 2022 with a 30-day comment period.  The Library Board will review a resolution regarding the Rule later in the meeting. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1, 2.1, 3.3, Sense of Community 2)
Missouri’s Secretary of State is proposing a new administrative rule that would restrict state funding to public libraries based on new collection development policy requirements. The rule states, in part, that "no funds received shall be used to purchase or acquire materials in any form that appeal to the prurient interest of any minor."
A 30-day public comment period regarding the rule will open on Tuesday, November 15. If you are interested in submitting a comment you can do so by the methods below:
	By email to comments@sos.mo.gov. Type the proposed rule number, 15 CSR 30-200.015, in the subject field.
	·By mail to Missouri Secretary of State, P.O. Box 1767, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
St. Louis County Library encourages parents and guardians to foster a love of reading, creativity, and a strong sense of imagination in their children – all of which are found in abundance at the library. The Library has an established collection development policy that supports the best interests of children, families and our patrons. We value parents’ and guardians' involvement in how their children use the library.
We believe our collection development policies serve our patrons effectively and reflect the diversity of the age, race, ethnicity, culture, education, socioeconomic level and lifestyle of the communities we serve.
The Library upholds the rights of each individual to privately read, listen to, and view the full range of published thought and ideas. The Library subscribes to the principles embodied in the Library Bill of Rights and its interpretations, Freedom to Read Statement and Freedom to View Statement adopted by the American Library Association.
We are always sensitive to any possibility of censorship and restriction of equitable access to books and other vital Library materials. We believe parents and guardians should be arbiters on what is suitable for their own children, and are wary of any third parties – including the State of Missouri – to impose those choices on others.
For 75 years, St. Louis County Library has provided resources and services to enrich individual minds, enhance lives and expand perspectives. We look forward to continuing to serve our St. Louis community.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Tulsa City-County Library is preparing to rebuild four branch libraries and is gathering best practices information from library systems around the Midwest. On November 1, they visited the Library to discuss our successes and challenges with the Your Library Renewed program. We escorted them on a tour of several branches over the course of the afternoon.  We visited Grant’s View, Meramec Valley, Grand Glaize and Lewis & Clark. They also toured the Beck. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	The Building Inspector for the City of Frontenac notified the Library on November 2, 2022 that we had completed all of the requirements to receive a permanent occupancy permit.  However, that permit was not forthcoming due to ongoing discussions about the monument sign setback at the Beck.  We had previously been told the monument sign was not part of the occupancy permit review.  After many discussions between legal counsel, the Library has received a permanent occupancy permit with the contingency that the monument sign will be moved five feet further from the road by March 31, 2023. Dr. Beckwith commented that getting the occupancy permit was not easy and thanked Kristen Sorth, Steve Hunter and Lisa Stump. (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation hosted a 1980s themed St. Louis County Library 75th Anniversary Celebration concert and fundraising event on November 17, 2022 at the Sheldon.  Local entertainer, Brian Owens, performed.  Library employees were invited to attend at a much reduced rate of $7.50.  There were over 200 people in attendance and the Foundation raised over $55,000.  The event was enjoyed by all in attendance. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4, 3)
	Ms. Sorth said two new Library employees have joined the Advancement team.  Terri Williams, the Annual Giving Manager, has been here for almost two months.  Michelle Beck, the Membership Engagement Coordinator, has been here for one week.  Terri and Michelle join Alicia Lee who has been here since April.  Jackie Hamilton and the entire Advancement Team did a fabulous job with the fundraising event at the Sheldon. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	The Foundation will be working on their 2023 budget and funding priorities in the next few weeks. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3)
	The Foundation, Library Administration and Lashly Baer are reviewing the Affiliation Agreement, the Foundation’s Bylaws and the Shared Services Agreement to make sure they are up-to-date, reflect current practices and are in agreement.  Both the Affiliation Agreement and the Shared Services Agreement will be brought to both the Foundation Board and the Library Board for review and approval before the end of this year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3)
	The Foundation received the following grant awards:
		Woods Foundation - $10,000 for diaper distributions
		Incarnate Word Foundation - $5,000 for social workers (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 3.1, 3.2. 3.4, Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3)
	The Library received the following grant awards:
		Missouri Arts Council - $5,000 for the Storytelling Festival
		Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA), State Library Grant - $20,000 for 45 virtual reality headsets to use with Interplay to learn skilled trades in a safe, immersive, virtual environment
		LSTA, State Library Grant -  $3,000 for the Collaborative Summer Library Program Promotional Grant (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 3.1, 3.2. 3.4, Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, 2.3) Author Events
November and December Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
	Author and Podcaster Rabia Chaudry, author of “Fatty Fatty Boom Boom: A Memoir of Food, Fat and Family,” Tuesday, November 29, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.  In conversation with Aisha Sultan, St. Louis Post-Dispatch Columnist.
	Jeffery Deaver, author of “Hunting Time: A Colter Shaw Novel,” Wednesday, November 30, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Patrick McCarthy and Akif Cogo, authors of “Bosnian St. Louis: Between Two Worlds,” Thursday, December 1, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	An Evening with Former U.S. Poet Laureate Billy Collins, author of “Musical Tables,” Thursday, December 8, 2022, 7:00 p.m., The J’s Staenberg Family Complex Edison Gymnasium at 2 Millstone Campus Drive, St. Louis, MO 63146, Doors open at 6:00 p.m. In conversation with Aliki Barnstone - Poet Laureate of Missouri, 2016-2019. Presented in partnership with the St. Louis Poetry Center and the Novel Neighbor
	ST. LOUIS TEEN BOOK FESTIVAL - Saturday, December 3, 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. - Ladue Horton Watkins High School
St. Louis County Library is thrilled to host the first in-person St. Louis area book festival celebrating teen readers.
Presented in partnership with St. Louis independent bookstore The Novel Neighbor, the 2022 Teen Book Festival will host an incredible line-up of fifteen top young adult authors with a focus on both diverse voices and fun conversations. Featuring Jenna Evans Welch, Adrienne Young, Ryan La Sala, Dustin Thao, Bill Konigsberg, Randi Pink, and many others. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 1.3, Sense of Community 2.2)
Dr. Beckwith asked Ms. Sorth to speak about Bobby Bostic.  Ms. Sorth spoke about receiving a letter from Mr. Bostic, who was incarcerated and recently released.  She said they began corresponding and since his release he has contacted her and is planning to speak at the library at a future date.
OLD BUSINESS
RESTATEMENT OF THE BY LAWS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO reported.
Articles I – VIII of the Bylaws of the Board of Trustees for the St. Louis County Library clarify the rules by which the Board of Trustees operate and govern the St. Louis County Library.  While many additions and revisions have been made to specific policies listed in the Appendix of the Bylaws, the Articles themselves have not been revised or restated since November of 2009.  As stated under Article VIII, Amendments, “these By-Laws may be amended, effective immediately, in whole or in part, at any regular or special meeting upon the affirmative vote of a majority (three) of the Board, provided the proposed amendment shall have been presented at one meeting preceding the vote thereon.”
The restated Bylaws were presented to the Library Board as an Information Item at the October 24, 2022 Board Meeting.  Most of the changes involve the use of current titles, best practices and reflect the operation of a public library in 2022.  One significant addition was made under Article 5, Section 4 Budget.  New language was added to address an instance in which the Board of Trustees fails to adopt a budget for the following fiscal year by the December 31 deadline as required by the Bylaws. The new language allows the St. Louis County Library District to continue operating as a political subdivision of the State of Missouri with taxing authority as defined in State Statute.
At the October meeting, the Library Board recommended one addition to the Bylaws. The statement, “as provided by state law” was added to the first paragraph and is included in red on the attached document along with the other suggested changes that were presented last month.
Per Article VIII, the restatement of the Bylaws is now presented to the Library Board for review at a second meeting of the Board.  Both a red line and clean copy of the Bylaws are attached.
The Library Board approved the restated Bylaws as provided for in Article VIII, Amendments.  The restated Bylaws were presented to the Library Board as an Information Item in a preceding Library Board Meeting on October 24, 2022 (Patterson/Barry).
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported. He showed an aerial view of the current site and the piles of dirt that will soon be spread out.  Mr. Hunter said he anticipates a drastic change in just a few months when the foundation is laid.
2023-2026 STRATEGIC PLAN
Ms. Sorth introduced Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives.
Ms. Gibson said that over the last two years, the Library has been working to develop a new strategic plan to guide the future activities of the Library for the years 2023 through 2026.  The planning process included both community and employee engagement.  The objective of this research and planning was to discover how the Library can best serve the community.  The research included focus groups, interviews, surveys, and meetings held in 2021 and 2022.
Opportunities to provide input included:
	Ten interviews conducted by Hicks Carter Hicks (HCH) in 2021 with employees administrators, board members, and community members
	Nine focus groups conducted by HCH in 2021 with members of the community
	An online community survey conducted by Hicks Carter Hicks in 2021
	Two focus groups conducted in 2022 with all managers and assistant managers of the Library
	An online survey for all employees in 2022
	An online survey for library patrons in 2022
The information collected over these last two years was used to develop the 2023-2026 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan.  The 2023-2026 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan was presented.
The Library Board approved the new 2023-2026 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan that will go into effect on January 1, 2023.  This document will be the foundation for the Library’s efforts to support the community for the next four years (Barry/Sanditz).
REVISIONS TO THE PENSION PLAN
The St. Louis County Library Employees’ Pension Plan was established in 1967 and has been restated four times since then, with the last restatement taking place in 2015.  The plan has also been amended several times over the years, including in 2019 with the addition of the Rule of 80.  In addition, the Actuarial Assumptions have been revised frequently over the years to keep up with best practices.  However, the formula used to calculate the earned benefit for an employee upon retirement has not changed since 1984, almost 40 years ago.
The Library Administration and the Pension Board are interested in updating the Employees’ Pension Plan to provide a more contemporary and better benefit for eligible Library employees.  The Library’s new HR Legal Counsel from Constangy, Brooks, Smith and Prophete reviewed all of the Library’s employee benefits, including the Pension Plan, when they were hired by the Library District.  We discussed current best practices with legal counsel and then asked the Library’s Actuary, Milliman, to review several scenarios that would significantly improve this benefit for eligible Library employees upon retirement.
Milliman prepared a report which was reviewed at the October Pension Board Meeting as an information item.  Library employees do not contribute to the Pension Plan.  The Library pays the full cost for the benefit. The report calculated the individual cost associated with implementing the following changes to the Pension Plan:
	Change to a 3-year Final Average Earnings from the current 5-year average
	Change to a 3-year vesting requirement from the current 5-year requirement
	Increase the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 1.8%
	Increase the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 2.0%
After reviewing the report and talking with the Pension Board President, Library Administration recommended just one change, increasing the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 1.8% to be effective January 1, 2023.  Milliman then prepared a new report with the calculation for this change only.  That report is attached and includes the estimated cost of the Pension Plan contribution in 2023.  The recommendation and the report were reviewed and unanimously approved by the Pension Board at a meeting on Monday, November 14, 2022.
Per State Statute, the Library District must take certain steps for the plan changes to be approved. Missouri State Statutes 105.665 and 105.675 govern substantial changes in pension plans.
If approved by the Library Board, the Library must engage Milliman to prepare an actuarial cost statement and submit this statement to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER is required to notify the public of any pension plans with substantial changes. This is typically accomplished by a posting on their website for 45 days.
Benefit multiplier will change in Jan. 1, 2023. When the pension is calculated, the last five years is taken into consideration. Deborah Patterson encouraged the Board to review this more often.
The Library Board approved the recommendation for contingent approval of increasing the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 1.8%, effective January 1, 2023, and approves the submission of the proposed amendment and actuarial cost statement to JCPER as required by State Statute. Following the 45-day posting, the Library Board will take final action at the February 6, 2023 Library Board Meeting on the Pension Board’s recommendation for implementation to be effective January 1, 2023 (Wang/Patterson).
COMMUNITY RESOURCE INITIATIVE—SOCIAL WORKERS
Eric Button, Deputy Director, presented the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a revision to the proposed fees submitted by Epworth for the Library’s Community Resource Initiative.  In December of 2021, the Library Board approved Epworth as the agency providing professional social work case management.  They will employ five (5) full-time, professional social workers for a period of two (2) years as part of the Library’s Community Resource Initiative.
The Board had previously approved the selection of Epworth at a total two-year cost of $629,595, and the Board further authorized the Library Director and CEO to enter into and execute that contract.  This project encountered some unforeseen delays in executing the contact, which have led to a reassessment of the project’s budget.  Several administrative and support positions at Epworth have been reclassified, and the market rate for case managers in the industry has escalated.  In order to attract qualified candidates for these roles, Epworth and Library Administration agreed that a higher salary for the case manager positions would be necessary.
The previously approved budget for the Community Resource Initiative was $629,595.  The revised budget proposed by Epworth is $683,035.
The Library will receive $429,000 in funding from the Children’s Services Fund for this initiative.  The remainder of the funding will be provided by the Library and the Library Foundation.
The Library Board approved of the revised fees submitted by Epworth for implementation of the Community Resource Initiative and that the Board authorizes the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with Epworth to provide professional social work services for the Library District. The annual expense is projected at $341,517.50 with a total projected two-year cost of $683,035 (Patterson/Sanditz).
2023 BUDGET
Laura Taylor, CFO and Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO presented.
Deborah Patterson asked about debt assumption. She also asked about models in the country for the business center.
The 2023 Budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of the following individuals:
Kristen Sorth – Director & CEO
Laura Taylor – Chief Financial Officer
Eric Button – Deputy Director
Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS
Steve Hunter – Assistant Director, Operations
Jennifer Gibson – Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives
The 2023 Budget document is attached.  The Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2023 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
The Library Board of Trustees set the 2022 tax rates at $0.2060 for Residential assessments, $0.2140 for Agricultural assessments, $0.2400 for Commercial assessments and $ 0.2600 for
Personal Property assessments. These rates will provide 96% of the cash income to operate in
2023. The Executive Summary on page 2 and the Revenue and Expenses on page 4 - 7 are a synopsis of the proposed 2023 Budget.
In 2023, the Library District will have a $500,000 surplus in the Maintenance and Operation Budget with a transfer of funds from the Assigned for Capital Improvements Fund.
The 2023 Budget is an informational item for this month in order to give the Library Board of Trustees time to review the document and ask questions.  The Budget Committee would like to receive your questions by December 6 so we may respond accordingly before the December Library Board Meeting. The Library Board of Trustees will vote on the 2023 Library Budget at the December Meeting. That vote will allow the Library to operate in 2023.
Deborah Patterson asked about debt assumption. She also asked about models in the country for the business center.
RESOLUTION – OPPOSING 15 CSR 30-200.015
The Administration, in consultation with Lashly Baer, has reviewed an Administrative Rule that was filed by Missouri’s Secretary of State which would restrict state funding to public libraries based on new collection development policy requirements. The rule states, in part, that "no funds received shall be used to purchase or acquire materials in any form that appeal to the prurient interest of any minor.”  The entire language of the rule is attached.
The Library has an established collection development policy that supports the best interests of children, families and our patrons. We value parents’ and guardians' involvement in how their children use the library.  We believe our collection development policies serve our patrons effectively and reflect the diversity of the age, race, ethnicity, culture, education, socioeconomic level and lifestyle of the communities we serve.
The Library upholds the rights of each individual to privately read, listen to, and view the full range of published thought and ideas. The Library subscribes to the principles embodied in the Library Bill of Rights and its interpretations, Freedom to Read Statement and Freedom to View Statement adopted by the American Library Association.
The Library is always sensitive to any possibility of censorship and restriction of equitable access to books and other vital Library materials. We believe parents and guardians should be arbiters on what is suitable for their own children, and are wary of any third parties – including the State of Missouri – to impose those choices on others.
Library Administration strongly believes that the right to access the Library and view the full range of published thoughts and ideas is an important part of the intellectual freedom that is basic to our democracy.  As a result, we believe the Library Board should urge the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules to reject Administrative Rule 15 CSR 30-200.015.
The Library Board approved the resolution in opposition to Administrative Rule 15 CSR 30-200.015 (Barry/Sanditz).
PHONE LINE CONTRACT RENEWAL
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director of ITS, presented the following.
The Library uses AT&T analog phone lines for elevator alarm services, backup voice lines and a fax machine.  The devices that make up these services require older phone service also known as “Plain Old Telephone Service” or POTS lines. AT&T is a sole source provider of POTS lines.  Our current one-year AT&T contract for POTS lines is due for renewal.
The Library has reduced the POTS line count from 32 down to 9 lines in use across the District in the past year.  The cost to renew 9 lines for another year has increased from $39 per line per month to $90 per line per month.  A new option is AT&T Phone for Business – Advanced.  This service is only $63 per line per month.  In order to take advantage of AT&T Phone for Business – Advanced, a 36-month contract is required along with a one-time purchase of $4,055 for digital phone appliances from AT&T.
AT&T only offers a 12-month contract on their POTS lines, which more than doubled in price from 2022 to 2023.  Transitioning to their new product allows the Library to lock in a lower rate for 36 months and results in a minimum savings of $4,693 over the 3-year term.
The Library Board approved of a new 36 month contract for AT&T Phone for Business – Advanced service for the period of December 2022 through November of 2025 for $20,412 plus fees and a one-time hardware purchase of $4,055 and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Sanditz/Barry).
MANAGED PRINT SERVICES RENEWAL
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director of ITS, reported the following information item.
The Library has over 175 printers and over 40 copiers throughout the District. These printers and copiers are maintained through a managed print services agreement with GFI Digital that was approved by the Library Board in December, 2019.  The current 3-year contract ends in late December 2022. Per the agreement, GFI charges a per copy price in return for regular maintenance, emergency maintenance, toner replacement, and replacement of failed devices.
Managed Print Services from GFI can be purchased under the Missouri statewide contract, “NASPO ValuePoint Copiers and Managed Print Services.”  GFI managed print services under NASPO Contract #140603 will keep our current per copy pricing for the next 36 months.
In addition to the managed print costs, the Library also plans to utilize NASPO Contract #CT2032797057, to renew a 1-year lease on 16 copiers at the cost of $1,480 per month, which equates to $17,760 per year.
Library Administration finds the cost reasonable.  Section 1. Paragraph 2 of the POLICY I PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES states, This Policy does not apply.…“for purchases made from federal, state, county or other cooperative purchasing contracts..”  Administration has discussed this renewal with the Library’s legal counsel, and these services are within the exclusion.
In accordance with the Library’s Purchasing Procedures Policy I, Library Administration will enter into a new contract with GFI Digital for 36 months of managed print services and renew a 1-year lease for 16 copiers and these will commence on January 1 and January 5 of 2023 collectively.  These items will be included in the draft 2023 budget.
ADJOURNMENT
A unanimous motion to adjourn was made.    Meeting adjourned at 4:54 p.m.
Sincerely,
___________________                                                          ____________________________
Joan Barry                                                                               Date
Board Secretary