{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLKM55E784",
  "date": "2022-03-28T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, March 28, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Paul Hampel, St. Louis County; and Attorney Allison Ringwald, Lashly Baer.
Others Attending: Conrad Rader, Annie Fuller, Anna Schurk, Tracy Fletcher, Crystal Harris, Sarah Wood, Deann Davis, Stacy Berger, Stephanie Nordmann, Alaina Culbertson, Jennifer Gibson, Skylar Stanley, Kim Ford, Jennifer McBride, Rebecca Maue, Heather Neill, Hannah Axt, Andrea Carter, Miriam Whatley, Anne Arthur, Kalin Preston, Terence McCoy, Laura Taylor, Kat VanArsdale, Aaron Seidel, Ross Brand, Allison Wisniewski and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the February 7, 2022 minutes (Barry/Wang).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who came forward to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor presented before the Board. She presented both the January and February Board reports.
January Financials
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue (page 3)
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $48 million and is at 84% of the total budgeted amount of $57 million.
	State Grants – In January, the Library District received $43,000 in State grant revenue. Of this amount, $40,000 is related to the grant received from the Missouri State Library’s American Rescue Plan Act Funds. This is the second of three payments totaling $120,000. These funds will primarily be used to purchase Chromebook bundles and e-media.
Expense (page 5 and 7)
	Collection Maintenance Software – In January, the Library District incurred $73,216 in collection maintenance software expense. This amount is related to the implementation of Polaris and resource sharing with the St. Louis Public Library.
	Technology – Maintenance Agreements – In January, the Library District incurred a total of $110,490 in technology – maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $70,352 was related to the renewal of the District’s annual support agreement with Bibliotheca.
February Financials
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue (page 3)
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $48.8 million and is at 85% of the total budgeted amount of $57 million.
Expense (page 5 and 6)
	Building Repair - HVAC– In February, the Library District incurred $36,074 in building repair – HVAC expense. This amount is related to the installation of a new boiler at the Florissant Valley branch.
	Building Repair – Roof & Carpet – In February, the Library District incurred a total of $19,437 in building repair – roof & carpet expense. This amount was related to the installation of flooring at the Daniel Boone, Natural Bridge, and Rock Road branches.
	Capital Improvements – In February, the Library District incurred a total of $749,303 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $481,038 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building through January 2022.
The Library Board approved of the March Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Barry/Patterson).
DIRECTOR'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth said the Dashboard report for February shows total circulation in February, 2022 was 45% higher than February 2021 when the Library was only open for curbside transactions.  She said monthly circulation remains below pre-pandemic levels.  EMedia circulation continues to grow with a 45% increase this month compared to February 2019.  The Library migrated to Polaris and merged catalogs with St. Louis Public Library on March 17.  In just a few days after the migration, Library employees checked in over 103,000 items that were returned during the Upgrade week when we were offline.  The Dashboard also includes the total number of copies of the most popular types of material with the merged catalog.  The number of books available to patrons has nearly doubled as a result of the merger. Information on visits, PC usage, new patron registrations, programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month are also included.  Next month, administration will have additional data to share about the catalog merge with St. Louis Public Library.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2, Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, and Maximize Access 1.1)
	She announced that the migration to Polaris went live on March 17.  As expected with any major system migration, there are some issues that are still being resolved. Last week, the most disruptive issue was the resetting of patron PINs, which was necessary because of the encrypted nature of this data in our old system.  The PIN reset had the greatest impact on Overdrive and Libby users because of some technical challenges that the Library had to resolve with Overdrive.  Employees have been working diligently to serve our patrons to the best of our ability in person, online, and on the phone.  Many of the issues we encountered on March 17 have been resolved.  Managers are tracking and reporting any questions and problems they encounter, and the Polaris staff are working in conjunction with Library employees to resolve these issues as quickly as possible.  She said the Library employees and managers delivered their usual exceptional public service during this time.  Ms. Sorth offered many thanks to those individuals who were instrumental in the project. This included Eric Button, Emily Althoff, Stephanie Nordmann, Tracy Fletcher, Sarah Brown, Gib Van Cleve, Amy Gibbons, Matt Lakin, Farid Saboorizadeh, Amy Hanaway, Alaina Culbertson and Jennifer McBride.  She said a press conference about the shared catalog announcement will be held at 10:00 a.m. on Monday, March 28 at Mid-County.  St. Louis County Executive Dr. Sam Page and St. Louis City Mayor Tishaura Jones will attend the event, along with Library Directors Kristen Sorth (SLCL) and Waller McGuire (SLPL). To celebrate the new shared catalog, the library systems will unveil new library cards sponsored by the St. Louis Cardinals at the press conference. Fredbird will be on hand to take photos with fans. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, Maximize Access 1.1)
	The Library moved to "masks recommended" for the public on February 28 with a change in St. Louis County guidelines.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2.4)
	She said there will be a gradual launch of in-person programming in April.  Administration has set the following parameters for programming in April and will reevaluate these for future months based on our experiences.  The Department of Public Health was consulted on these plans:
		We will not offer in-person children's programming during this time.  Only adult and teen programming may be offered.
		All programs will require registration and will have limited capacity.  Capacity will be based on the nature of the program, and will be determined by the branch or department presenting the program.
		We will not utilize outside presenters.
		We will have a soft launch without extensive marketing and promotion.
		Masks will be required during library programming.  This requirement will be clearly communicated to registrants.
		Book-a-Trainer, Book-a-Librarian, and Book-a-Genealogist services and Computer Classes may resume in-person.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 2.4)
	Notary services will be offered to the public beginning on April 4.  The service will be available during most open library hours Monday through Saturday.  A full public informational campaign will launch in mid-April, but we are beginning with a soft launch approach to ensure a smooth start to these services.  In total, we have more than 100 public service employees who are now registered notaries. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, Maximize Access 1.1 and 1.4)
	She said Nine PBS has asked the Library to partner with them on a new initiative aimed at kids ages 6-8 to help strengthen literacy skills, reading comprehension, and confidence using digital technology. PBS' primary audience for the initiative is families from underrepresented communities, including the Promise Zone. The Lewis & Clark Branch was selected to host the 8-week series, based on a new kids' multimedia program titled “Drawn In,” which includes video vignettes, a game, comics, and community resources. Families will work together to create a comic during the weekly “Drawn In Literacy Power Hour” workshops, taking place Thursdays, May 19 - July 7. Dinner will be provided to the families who attend, and attendees will receive a free Chromebook customized with literacy apps if they attend all eight sessions. Participants will be chosen by lottery and can submit an entry form through the library’s website. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, 3.1 and 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	Ms. Sorth said on Valentine’s Day, February 14, the Library launched a new program called “The Love of Reading.” This program, made possible by a generous gift from Citi, is offered at the Urban League’s Head Start location in Jennings.  The program is centered around read along books that have an audio player integrated into the cover of the book.  Dozens of titles will be provided to the Head Start over the course of the next several months.  Enough copies of each book will be provided to allow an entire class to read the same title.  The students also received headphones which will allow the children to start and stop the read along story at their own pace.  In addition to a new selection of the read-along books each month, the Head Start will enjoy monthly visits from the Sweet Reads bookmobile and a live story time presentation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, Sense of Community 2.1, and Maximize Impact 1.4)
	As mentioned previously, she presented to the County Council's Committee of the Whole in January to discuss the GrandPad program.  We discussed the success of the program and shared data on usage, demographics, and distribution.  We asked the Council to consider providing the Library with ARPA funds for a second year of GrandPads and to fund additional units.  A bill was introduced by County Councilwoman, Lisa Clancy, to do just this.  The bill received final approval on March 1.  The Library will receive $2 million in American Rescue Plan (ARPA) money from St. Louis County to fund a second year of GrandPads for the current recipients and to grow the program, with an additional $1 million to add 1,500 new recipients.  The Library is  currently working with St. Louis County on the details and documentation required under ARPA.  These requirements are much different than those under CARES. Once those documents are finalized, we will begin the application process for new recipients.  Digital equity will be our guide as it was in the first application process.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and Maximize Impact 1.4)
	Administration is working on an expanded partnership with Oasis that will bring their tutors to multiple branches this summer.  In 2019, we worked with Oasis on a pilot program at two branches during the summer.  The pilot was successful but due to the pandemic the tutoring moved to virtual in the summer of 2020 and 2021.  This expanded partnership will be similar but offered at more branches starting in June.  Children in kindergarten through third grade will have an opportunity to keep their reading skills on track during the summer months.  The service is free and tutoring is available on a walk-in, first come, first served basis. Children participating in the free program will work one-on-one for 30-minute sessions with older adults who serve as tutors with the Oasis Intergenerational Tutoring Program, the largest older adults tutoring program in the U.S. The sessions will focus on reading and literacy skills. Each week, kids who participate in the program will take home a free book to encourage reading after the tutoring session. I will share more details about the program as they become available. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library is working with Operation Food Search to bring back in-person summer meals for kids starting in May, immediately following the end of the school year.  Summer meals will be offered at nine locations this summer:  Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Parkview, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Rock Road and Weber Road.  I will share more details as they are developed.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1, and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library has been assisting St. Louis County with expanding community access to a County survey that will provide public feedback regarding the spending of the American Rescue Plan Act funds (ARPA).  We placed an icon on all public computers that provides a direct link to the survey.  In addition, the Library hosted four town hall meetings where representatives from St. Louis County Government listened to feedback about ARPA spending from residents that attended the meetings.  Those took place at Lewis & Clark, Grant’s View, Parkview and Thornhill. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1, Sense of Community 2.1)
	The Library continue to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of March 24, 2022.   (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library began offering cardholders free access to Headspace, a meditation and fitness app, in fall of 2021. Adult Services also hosts mental health-related programs on a regular basis to help promote Headspace and overall wellness. The patrons using the Headspace app were recently surveyed and the results are overwhelmingly positive. Ninety percent of patrons agreed that they are feeling less stress. When asked if they feel more compassionate and patient with others, 79% agreed; 85% of patrons reported that they are more present throughout the day, and 79% agreed that they are experiencing a better response to challenging conversations and situations. Some of the feedback we have received includes
	“This has greatly improved my quality of life and a huge benefit as I would not be able to afford it normally”
	“We look forward to the morning wake up and do it as a family. It is something that keeps us off social media!”
	“I love that you have made it available through the St. Louis County Library. It really does help.”
	“It helps me calm down in a stressful or anxious moment so well! I have learned breathing techniques that really do the trick. Thank you for offering this service!”  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and 3.3, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 1.1 and 1.4)
	This month, the Library is celebrating Women’s History Month with a dozen book discussions, STEAM activities, historical programs and more. They include programs like St. Louis Women Behind the Camera presented by Dr. Elizabeth Eickmann, a Postdoctoral Fellow at Washington University in the American Culture Studies Department, and programs for kids like Girl Power Story Time. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3)
	Ms. Sorth said this March, the Library is facilitating a Daily Drawing Challenge through Creativebug with more than 350 participants. While the challenge is self-directed, participants can share their progress on Instagram. Currently there are almost 700 posts related to the challenge on Instagram. Adult Services is also accepting submissions for the 2nd Annual Virtual Art Show on ArtSteps.com, a virtual reality exhibition space. Participants in the Library’s arts and crafts programs are invited to submit work they would like to share with the larger community. Last year, the 100 works on display had nearly 2,000 views. The Art Show will have a virtual preview reception on Saturday, April 30. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3)
	Adult Services is hosting the Virtual Program: Community Autism Expo on World Autism Day, which is Saturday, April 2 from 10:00 a.m. – noon and 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.  Each session will feature short presentations from area organizations like St. Louis ARC, Special School District, Freddie Ford Family Foundation, UMSL Succeed Program and more. Attendees will learn about the services available for individuals with autism and their families. The Reference Department will also share more information about library services. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4 and 2, Maximize Access 1.4 and 2.4)
	This April, Adult Services and Reference will host nine virtual programs in celebration of Money Smart Month with partners like the Urban League, Grow with Google, Institute for Financial Education, Alzheimer’s Association, Ameren Missouri, and the Missouri Small Business Development Center. Attendees can learn more about topics like small business, budgeting, investing, credit, and debt management. Money Smart Month is a collaborative, regional effort, led by the St. Louis Regional Empowerment Coalition, and the Library is one of many organizations and libraries that serve on the planning committee. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and 3.2, Sense of Community 2.1)
	She said this spring we are offering a new family challenge called Explore-a-Story, with the goal of encouraging families to spend time outside and read together. The Youth Services department created a list of twelve unique destinations around St. Louis County that families can visit and pair the visits with suggested children’s books. Example locations include the Memorial Park Cemetery Clock (built into the ground) in North County, the Mesnier Ice Cream Cone in Affton, the “Honoring Our Heritage Mural'' in downtown Overland and Pecan Legacy Park in Chesterfield.  If families visit five of the locations, they will be entered in an electronic raffle for a gift card to Union Station attractions. The challenge runs April 15-June 15, and families can pick up a printed guide at the branch or participate online.  Participants can tag the library with the #exploreastory on social media to share photos.  Ms. Sorth said the Library is also working with St. Louis County to promote this program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2, 2.3 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Pictures were shown from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including:  Black History Celebration events including - The Black Rep at Florissant Valley, Set the Night to Music at Florissant Valley, the Frankie Freeman Award at HQ, author Laura Coates at HQ and the Gift of Gospel at Florissant Valley and In-Person Author events at HQ – CJ Box, Kelly Barnhill and Brad Meltzer.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3 and 3.4,      Sense of Community 2.1)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said she was pleased to announce that Jackie Hamilton became the Assistant Director of Advancement on March 1 following the retirement of Barbara Turkington at the end of February.  Jackie started with the Library in April of 2019 as the Manager of Development and the Executive Director of the Library's Foundation.  Prior to working for the Library, Jackie was the Chief Development Officer for Beyond Housing.  She has an MBA from Lindenwood University and a BA in Business Administration from UMSL.  Jackie has been instrumental in creating a more engaged and diverse Foundation Board.  She has recruited many new Foundation Board Members and has explored new fundraising opportunities that have benefited the Library and our region.  Fundraising in the middle of a pandemic is not easy and Jackie transitioned the Foundation to two very successful virtual Fund the Need weeks with one ending in a brand new Food Truck Event that raised over $200,000 as well as two of the most successful Give STL Days the Foundation has experienced to date.  Please join me in congratulating Jackie!
	Ms. Sorth said she was informed that our GrandPad Initiative has been selected to receive North County Incorporated’s Special Recognition Leadership Award. This award is presented to outstanding individuals who exemplify leadership and service to North County, are dedicated to helping others and improving the business environment and lives of those they serve.  We will receive this honor at the North County Inc. Annual Leadership Breakfast on May 6, 2022.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3.1, Sense of Community 2.3)
	The Employee Engagement Committee has a new wellness initiative for all employees called Plant a Habit.  Throughout March and April, the Committee will send a weekly email outlining some habits and activities for employees to try. The habits and activities will be based on a weekly theme that are in line with National Nutrition Month.  National Nutrition Month is an annual campaign created by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.  Everyone is invited to learn about making informed food choices and developing healthful eating and physical activity habits. National Nutrition Month is typically divided into weekly messages. This year, the Engagement Committee wishes to reference the weekly messages and connect it to the arrival of spring.
	Week 1 involved suggestions on how to eat a variety of nutritious foods by trying out the following:
		Plan and cook a meal at home
		Cook a new vegetable you have never tried
		Try a new vegetarian recipe
		Drink an extra 8 oz. of water
		Swap out a sugary drink or treat for something more rich in nutrients
		Try meal prepping for the week to have healthy dishes on hand in a pinch
Library Construction and Facility Update
	She said the Library maintains a fleet of vans for employees to use when visiting branches or on other official business. This is a longstanding practice that enables staff to not have to use their personal vehicles for work.  Over time the usage of vans has diminished to the point that we now have more vans than are actually needed.  Administration is working with Enterprise Fleet Management to determine the proper fleet size and to sell unneeded vans. Enterprise will manage the sales and take a small fee ($250 / vehicle) for their effort.  This effort will reduce vehicle and insurance expenses for the Library.
	Ms. Sorth said the name of the Parkview Branch (formerly Indian Trails) will be announced on April 1. Information will be included in the monthly eNews, as well as in a separate email to the patrons of that branch and on the SLCL homepage. Communications will begin updating print materials and the website soon after. (Plan: Sense of Community 1)
	Public information about HQ closing will be shared in April.  Communications will update the public via emails and print materials in the branch as we approach the closing at the end of May. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	Earlier this month the routine inspections were conducted by Frontenac's Building Inspector.  There were no concerns and the Library received the Temporary Occupancy Permit.  A ribbon cutting ceremony will be held on April 28 at 10:00 a.m.  Invitations will go out via email in early April. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	Give STL Day is on Thursday, May 5th this year.   Early giving begins on April 5th.
	The Foundation is hosting a Fund the Need Week from June 6 - 10 with a Food Truck event to close out the week on Friday, June 10th.  This will be our last event at HQ until the new building is completed.  Individual tickets are $50 and the Foundation is working to secure sponsorships.
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2)
The Library has Livestream author events and recordings with the following authors. They are posted on our website as well as the HEC Facebook link - facebook.com/hectv and then archived at hecmedia.org. We are promoting on our social media and sending eBlasts that direct patrons to the HEC sites. HEC has also started simultaneously premiering the virtual author events on their TV channel to expand access to those individuals who do not have reliable internet access. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3 and Maximize Impact 1.1)
March and April 2022 Author Events
	Adele Myers, author of “The Tobacco Wives,” Tuesday, March 29, 2022, 7:00 p.m.  Virtual www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
	Deborah Cohen, author of “Last Call at the Hotel Imperial: The Reporters Who Took on a World at War,” Friday, April 1, 2022, 7:00 p.m. Headquarters.  MASKS REQUIRED FOR ALL ATTENDEES.
	Cynthia D’Aprix Sweeney, author of “Good Company,” Tuesday, April 5, 2022, 7:00 p.m.  Headquarters. In Conversation with HEC Media Host Brenda Madden.  MASKS REQUIRED FOR ALL ATTENDEES.
	Kathy Gilsinan, author of “The Helpers: Profiles from the Front Lines of the Pandemic,” Thursday, April 7, 2022, 7:00 p.m. MASKS REQUIRED FOR ALL ATTENDEES.
	John Searles, author of “Her Last Affair,” Monday, April 11, 2022, 7:00 p.m.  Headquarters. MASKS REQUIRED FOR ALL ATTENDEES.
	Sally Hepworth, author of “The Younger Wife,” Wednesday, April 13, 2022, 7:00 p.m. In Conversation with HEC Media Host Angie Weidinger. MASKS REQUIRED FOR ALL ATTENDEES.
	Ekemini Uwan, Christina Edmundson, and Michelle Higgins, “Truth’s Table: Black Women’s Musings on Life, Love, and Liberation,” Thursday, April 14, 2022, 7:00 p.m. Video premiere: on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary
Deborah Patterson asked for details on the PBS program. Ms. Sorth responded that the funding is coming from PBS. She said the Library is hosting and PBS is conducting the program.
Ms. Patterson also asked where we stand on access to Chrome books? Ms. Sorth responded that she will check to see how long the waiting list is currently.
Dr. Beckwith said that Ms. Sorth represented the Library well at the press conference. He received his Cardinal library card. Ted Sanditz said the event was a big deal and a lot of fun.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that the Library now has a temporary occupancy permit for the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building. Mr. Hunter showed pictures of the completed building. Pictures included the new furniture and the walking path around the building.
He also gave a few remarks regarding the replacement of the Ladue Branch. Mr. Hunter said it’s in the final design.
MOVING COMPANY FOR PHASE 3 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Mr. Hunter reported that Phase 3 of the Your Library Renewed Program includes the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building and the replacement branch for Headquarters. On February 24, 2022 Administration issued a Request for Proposal for Moving Services for assistance moving into and out of these buildings.
The RFP was posted on our website and a link was emailed directly to 13 local companies. There were no W/MBE businesses listed on the State directory for moving services. An Amendment to the RFP was posted on March 4, 2022. Proposals were due on March 17, 2022.
The Scope of Work lists 16 discrete “waves” of staff and collection moves. Due to the complicated nature of the work, the likelihood of scope changes, and the two-year duration of the project it was determined that a ‘not to exceed’ number would be most reasonable to request. The proposers were asked to submit a complete rate sheet that will govern the actual payments for the work.
Two responses were received. The following table shows the ‘not to exceed’ value given.
     Dodge Moving and Storage         $ 90,693
     A-Mrazek                        $126,589
Dodge Moving and Storage has been the mover for all previous Your Library Renewed projects. We have been very satisfied with their work. A selection committee of Steve Hunter and Kelli Reeves concluded that Dodge Moving and Storage provided the lowest and best response to the RFP.
The Library Board approved the selection of the lowest and best bid from Dodge Moving and Storage to provide moving services for the Phase 3 projects for $90,693 and that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Wang/Barry).
FURNITURE CONTINGENCY FOR THE LYNN BECKWITH, JR. ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING
Steve Hunter reported that on November 15, 2021, the Board selected CI Select to provide and install all furniture at the new Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building at a cost of $1,289,364.80. According to the Library’s Purchasing Policy a 5% contingency for unforeseen items is automatically allowed. In this instance that amount is $64,468.24.
Due to several unanticipated items, including the need to store much of the furniture while waiting for building completion, the contingency limit is being approached.
Administration is requesting a modest expansion of the contingency fund to 7.5% to complete the furniture installation. This is a $32,234.12 increase in contingency.
The total cost for all shelving and furniture was more than $1,200,000 favorable to the budget at the time of award.
The Library Board approved expanding the furniture contingency fund for the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building from $64,468.24 to $96,702.36 (Patterson/Sanditz).
INSURANCE RENEWALS
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported that all lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on April 1. Due to the time needed for the Library to implement multi-factor email authentication that is required for cyber insurance, our current cyber policy will be extended by one month and renew on May 1. In an effort to keep all the policies with the same renewal date, the other policies will be in effect for 13 months so they will renew on May 1 next year.
This year Daniel & Henry marketed all but one line of the account (Directors and Officers insurance), including property, inland marine, general liability, auto, umbrella, pollution, and workers’ compensation. Sixteen companies were asked to bid on the various lines of coverage, including the incumbents, and nine carriers returned a bid.
All of the insurance carriers remain the same for all lines of coverage except for workers’ compensation. The new quote for workers’ compensation from Employers came in $37,000 less than Hanover. The total cost to the Library District for continuing coverage will be $463,448 compared to $455,475 from last year, an increase of 1.75%, which is under the budgeted amount of 10% for 2022. This increase is in line with the current marketplace.
The Library Administration, in consultation with The Daniel and Henry Company, recommends that the Library Board accept the quotes from the insurance carriers, which include The Hanover Insurance Group, Employers, Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Ironshore, and One Beacon Insurance Group for a total cost of $463,448.  The Library Board approved of the recommendation (Sanditz/Barry).
LEGAL COUNSEL ENGAGEMENT LETTER
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, reported the following.
The St. Louis County Library’s engagement agreement with legal counsel, Lashly & Baer, P.C., has not been updated since November 2016.
The current blended rate for St. Louis County Library is $190.  On April 1, 2022, our blended rate for all attorneys will increase to $205 an hour. On January 1, 2023, the blended rate will increase to $210 an hour for all attorneys.
The Library Board approved the engagement letter from Lashly & Baer which includes a new blended hourly rate for legal services of $205 an hour beginning April 1, 2022 and $210 an hour beginning January 1, 2023 (Sanditz/Barry).
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Sanditz made a motion to adjourn the meeting and Ms. Barry seconded.  All gave voice vote for approval.  The meeting adjourned at 4:22 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
_____________________                                                      _________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                              Date