{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CATLLR560266",
  "date": "2022-04-18T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
HEADQUARTERS BRANCH
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Headquarters, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 18, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director, Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Paul Hampel, St. Louis County; and Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Nicole Clawson, Donna Spaulding, Natalia Catlett, Chasidy Allen, Heather Neill, Becky Maue, Melissa Bauer, Nicole Walsh, Denise Chappell, Andrea Johnson, Skylar Stanley, Carla Maxwell, Brent Trout, Connie Dee, Emily Althoff, Chris Goodwin, Gina Sheridan, Danielle Nenninger, Kate Keeven, Deanna Davis, Amy Hanaway, Emma Figueroa, Keir Haug, Mary Arnhart and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the March 28, 2022 minutes (Wang/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons wishing to speak to the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
CFO Laura Taylor presented the following report.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – Year-to-date total tax revenue for 2022 is $49.3 million and is at 86% of the total budgeted amount of $57 million. The Library District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Grants – In March, the Library District received two LSTA grants totaling $45,333. Of this amount, $25,333 was the first of three payments totaling $76,000 as part of the Strengthen Missourian’s Grant. These funds will be used to meet community needs with Brainfuse. The remaining $20,000 was the first of three payments totaling $60,000 as part of the Library Automation Grant. These funds will be used for the ILS migration.
Expense
	Collection Maintenance Software – In March, the Library District incurred $37,046 in collection maintenance software expense. Of this amount, $19,076 was paid to Innovative Interfaces Inc. for one year of support of the Library’s mobile app.
	Grant Fulfillment Expense – In March, the Library District incurred $76,631 in grant fulfillment expense. Of this amount, $76,000 was paid to Brainfuse Inc. for one year of licensing. The Library was awarded a state grant to cover this expense, and the first of three payments was received in March.
	Technology – Equipment – In March, the Library District incurred $73,525 in technology – equipment expense. This expense was paid to Dell Marketing for PCs, monitors, keyboards, and mice for staff.
	Capital Improvements – In March, the Library District incurred a total of $1,267,497 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,136,552 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building through February 2022.
The Library Board approved of the April 2022 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sanditz/Patterson).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Director and CEO Kristen Sorth reported.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth said the Dashboard report for March is attached.  Total circulation in March, 2022 was 11% higher than March, 2021.  The Library migrated to Polaris and merged catalogs with St. Louis Public Library on March 17.  The exchange of material between the two Library Districts started immediately.  Between March 17 and April 6, 10,476 items were transferred between the two systems. This includes 3,411 St. Louis County items transferred to St. Louis Public for pickup, and 7,065 items sent from St. Louis Public to St. Louis County patrons.  The Dashboard includes a breakdown of the type of material being requested, with books making up the majority of the requests.  SLCL and SLPL patrons checked out 559,554 items from our merged library catalog.  Patrons placed 70,768 holds. Those were filled by employees and 327,331 items were checked in to the holding library.  Information on visits, PC usage, new patron registrations, programming attendance and the most popular titles for the month are also included.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.1 and 1.2, Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.1, and Maximize Access 1.1)
	She said that following a survey of all employees who participate in library programming, some changes were recently communicated regarding in-person programming for future months.  During May, we will begin offering in-person children’s programming.  Staff will no longer require patrons attending programs to wear a mask.  Registration will still be required for all programs in May.  In June, the number of programs offered will increase, and we will begin using outside presenters for programs.  Registration will only be required for programs where supplies, equipment, and computers are limited.  June will also be marked with a sharp increase in the publicity of in-person library programs and events, including the resumption of Monthly Brochures for each branch.  We will continue to monitor community health issues and track the local, state, and federal guidelines related to Covid-19 and make adjustments as needed.   (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3, Maximize Access 2.4)
	Library Administration has been involved in several meetings with executives from Polaris to seek expedited resolution to some of the outstanding issues related to the migration and performance of Polaris and Vega.  The number of issues that remain unresolved has steadily decreased and several significant issues have been resolved since March 17.  Ms. Sorth said the meetings with the Polaris executives assured us that our concerns were being heard at the highest level, and many of the remaining issues have been prioritized by the company with projected completion dates in a few weeks for many of the most pressing issues.  Library employees have shown incredible resilience and patience as they adjusted to both changes related to the ILS and changes resulting from the catalog merger and working closely with St. Louis Public Library.  In addition to public service employees, Customer Connect saw a marked increase in call volume.  In March 2022, Customer Connect answered 9,276 calls, with an average talk time of 3 minutes and 26 seconds. They handled 13% more calls in March 2022 compared to March 2021with 29% increase in talk time. Customer Connect had been averaging about 1800 calls per week in 2022. During the first 7 days with Polaris, 3,353 calls came through.  On Saturday 3/19, Customer Connect employees, assisted by several staff employees from the Reference Department, answered an unbelievable 521 calls, which is an all-time record for a Saturday. The previous record was 368 calls on September 1, 2018. (Plan: Maximize Access 1)
	Ms. Sorth said the Adult Services department has been developing a number of service responses to better meet the needs of the immigrant and refugee population in the region.  A recent suggestion was to expand the number of languages into which the Library’s website is translated.  Until recently, the only option was Spanish.  Now, through the use of a Google Translate feature, the website can be translated into 16 different languages.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.2, Sense of Community 1 and 2, Maximize Access 1 and 3.4)
	She reported that a team of employees met with several other libraries who recently added new bookmobiles to their libraries.  This included a conversation with St. Charles City-County Library.  The information gleaned from these meetings will be useful as we explore the procurement of new bookmobiles in the future.  The Library intends to develop an RFP to identify a company to help develop the specifications for these very specialized vehicles.  (Plan: Maximize Access 1.4 and 2)
	Congresswoman Cori Bush’s staff reached out to announce that they were presenting a framed copy of the Congressional Record in which the work of SLCL in the community was acknowledged.  The framed Congressional Record was presented to Ms. Sorth on April 8 by Danielle Spradely, the Outreach Director for the Congresswoman. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1)
	Family Search delivered their equipment to the Daniel Boone Branch to begin setting up for their digitization project.  Family Search is a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping all people discover their family history.  The organization, which is affiliated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, houses one of the largest collections of genealogical resources in the world.  They will be digitizing many of our rolls of microfilm at no cost.  Our patrons and people around the world will have free remote access to these collections through the Family Search database once they are digitized.  This work, which will be performed at Daniel Boone Branch starting on June 21, will also give us greater flexibility with storage of the film. (Plan: Maximize Access 1.1)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library is expanding a partnership with several justice-involved organizations to provide an additional Tap In Center location at the Lewis & Clark Branch. The program provides free legal assistance and connects individuals with local support services to help navigate the court system during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Tap In Center will take place on the first Tuesday of the month from 6:00-8:00 p.m. at the Lewis & Clark Branch and every Tuesday at the Florissant Valley Branch. The Tap In Center started as a pilot program in fall 2020 at the Florissant Valley Branch. Individuals can show up in person, call or email for assistance. The program provides a safe space for individuals to seek assistance in resolving warrants, meet with an attorney, learn their case status, apply for a public defender, and access resources through The Bail Project.  Since the program launched, over 295 individuals have received free assistance with their St. Louis County criminal case and over 300 warrants have been resolved. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1 and Maximize Access 1)
	On June 11 and 12, the Library will be showcasing programs and resources at the STEM Expo that is a part of the St. Louis Airshow.  Library employees will take some of its various robots for hands-on-learning for attendees. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1 and 3.3, Maximize Access 1.2 and 1.3)
	She announced that Adult Services and Youth Services have teamed up this year to expand the Celebrating Poetry compilation to kids and teens, in addition to adults. During April in celebration of National Poetry Month, patrons age seven and older are encouraged to submit their own poems for inclusion in an online collection available in Biblioboard. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.2 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.2)
	Ms. Sorth said starting on May 1, the Library is hosting the We Can’t Wait: 21-Day Racial Equity & Social Justice Challenge once again, in partnership with YWCA Metro St. Louis. This year’s Challenge will focus on the immediacy of listening, learning, and acting to address inequities in our community. Participants are asked to make daily time and space for 21 days to foster understanding and identify ways to dismantle racism and end discrimination. All registrants will receive a daily email with a list of related articles, podcasts, videos, journaling, etc. Each Friday until May 21, there will be facilitated discussions of the weekly topics, led by the YWCA Metro St. Louis.  (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
	She said volunteers from AARP provided free in-person tax assistance for individuals with low to moderate income, with an emphasis on seniors, at five branches this year: Grand Glaize, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Parkview and Rock Road. Over 1,000 appointments were filled by the team in Customer Connect, a significant increase from last year’s drop-off service. The team of volunteers then processed 900 tax returns. (Plan: Sense of Community 2.1, Maximize Access 1.4)
	The Library is launching a new series in partnership with STL Reentry Collective entitled, Our Time, to highlight the reentry experiences of formerly incarcerated people from the St. Louis region. The first session of Our Time: Workshop and Documentary Series will be hosted at the Natural Bridge Branch on Saturday, May 14th. Attendees will watch short films that explore their time in and out of prison, then participate in a panel discussion to make connections and expand understanding. A table of library resources will also be available at the event. (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4 and 2.2)
	Starting in June, the Library will again partner with Oasis to offer free tutoring to students entering Kindergarten through 3rd grade.  The 30-minute in-person sessions will be offered at nine branches.  The nine participating branches are Florissant Valley, Mid-County, Natural Bridge, Thornhill, Grant's View, Weber Road, Parkview, Rock Road and Cliff Cave.  Registration is required.  The tutoring sessions will be offered on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, between June 14, 2022-August 4, 2022 from 9:30-12:30 and 1:00-2:30 p.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.1, Sense of Community 2.1)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will continue to provide vital services to the region.  Here is a chart that shows our accomplishments as of April 15, 2022.   (Plan: Sense of Community 1.4, 2.1 and 2.3, Maximize Access 1.4)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Maximize Access 3)
	Pictures were shown of various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including:  Author John Scalzi at HQ, In the Branch at Mid County and Weber Road, Author Event Deborah Cohen at HQ, Author Event Kathy Gilsinan at HQ, and Grab & Go Meals.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3, Sense of Community 2.1 and 2.3)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that Board member Johnny Wang has been reappointed to the Library Board of Trustees by St. Louis County Executive, Dr. Sam Page, for another four years.  He was congratulated.
	She said the St. Louis County Library is a finalist for the prestigious National Medal for Museum and Library Service.  SLCL is the only Library in Missouri to be named a finalist.  The National Medal for Museum and Library Service is the nation’s highest honor for institutions that make significant and exceptional contributions to their communities. Since 1994, the Institute for Museum and Library Science (IMLS) has presented the award to institutions that demonstrate extraordinary and innovative approaches to community service. IMLS is a federal agency administering discretionary federal programs. The mission of IMLS is to advance, support, and empower America’s museums, libraries, and related organizations through grant making, research, and policy development. The agency carries out its charge as it adapts to meet the changing needs of our nation’s museums and libraries and their communities.  Each year about 30 organizations are named as finalists and typically six receive the National Medal.  IMLS will highlight all of the finalists during the next month.  Each finalist will have their own day.  Winners are announced in June and the National Medal is presented in July.  That presentation is often at the White House with the First Lady presenting.  She said St. Louis County Library employees are creative, kind and giving.   Those attributes came through loud and clear to the selection committee.
	Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada (GFOA) has awarded the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting to St. Louis County Library for its annual comprehensive financial report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020. The report has been judged by an impartial panel to meet the high standards of the program, which includes demonstrating a constructive "spirit of full disclosure" to clearly communicate its financial story and motivate potential users and user groups to read the report. The Certificate of Achievement is the highest form of recognition in the area of governmental accounting and financial reporting, and its attainment represents a significant accomplishment by a government and its management.
	The Florissant Valley Branch has been selected as the Winner for the 2022 Best of Florissant Awards in the category of Libraries. The purpose of the Florissant award program is to support and offer public recognition of the contributions of businesses and organizations in and around Florissant.
	The Green Team hosted the Seeds of Summer outdoor event on Saturday, April 9 at five branches, Grand Glaize, Lewis & Clark, Jamestown Bluffs, Natural Bridge, and Weber Road. The program was funded by a grant from the Library Foundation to purchase biodegradable pots, seed starting mix and packets of vegetables and herbs that can be easily grown in our region. The mission of the program was to increase awareness of food insecurity throughout the region and support beginner gardeners. In total, 370 patrons planted their own seeds at the events. Seeds and pots were purchased from Seed St. Louis who also donated 820 packets of seeds. St. Louis County Farm Bureau donated 200 children’s kits that had a newsletter, seeds, soil and a pot. The Green Team is working on hosting another program soon to use the remainder of the grant. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2.4 and 3.4, Sense of Community 2.3)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth said Public information about the closing of HQ has been shared with patrons via email and print materials in the branch.  HQ will close to the public at 5:00 p.m. on May 28th. (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
	She announced a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the grand opening of the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building will be held on April 28 at 10:00 a.m.  SLCL will also honor Dr. Beckwith’s significant contributions to the Library. Individual invitations were sent out via email.  (Plan: Maximize Access 2)
Library Foundation
	Give STL Day is on Thursday, May 5 this year.
	The Library received $40,000 in grant funding from the State Library through the LSTA Technology Ladder Grant program.  The funds will be applied to the cost of the Drupal 9 software upgrade of the Library website later this year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3)
Author Events
The Library’s Author Event Series is again focusing on in-person programs, while continuing to reach out to our virtual audience through HEC Media.
SLCL is also piloting a partnership to bring St. Louis County Library author events to other Library Districts across the State of Missouri.  Ms. Sorth recently had a meeting to talk with representatives of  Springfield-Green Public Library in Springfield, MO and the Daniel Boone Regional Library in Mid-Missouri to discuss the pilot.
She said starting in June, many of the Library’s author events will be moving to the Jewish Community Center’s Mirowitz Performing Arts Center. The St. Louis Jewish Book Festival has generously offered us the use of this space during construction of the new Ladue Branch. These events will be marketed to both Library and Jewish Book Festival audiences as SLCL Authors @ the J.  Communications is working on an information campaign to promote the temporary move to the J.
This program kicks off on June 1 with an event featuring Jeffrey Nussbaum, speechwriter for President Biden and author of “Undelivered: The Never Heard Speeches that Would Have Re-Written History.” Other highlights include sports historian Michael Loynd in conversation with Olympian Jackie Joyner-Kersee (June 15) and bestselling international suspense author Chris Pavone (June 7).  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1.3 and Maximize Impact 1.1 and 2.4)
April and May 2022 Author Events
	Theresa Brown, author of “Healing: When a Nurse Becomes a Patient,” Thursday, April 21, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Jennifer Close, author of “Marrying the Ketchups,” Wednesday, April 27, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Erin and The Freedom Writers, authors of "Dear Freedom Writer: Stories of Hardship and Hope From the Next Generation," Video premiere: Thursday, April 28, 7:00 p.m., on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary.  In conversation with Dr. Paula Knight, Superintendent of Schools - Jennings School District.
	Adriana Trigiani, author of “The Good Left Undone,” Friday, April 29, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Don Winslow, author of “City on Fire,” Monday, May 2, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Mark Updegrove, author of “Incomparable Grace: JFK in the Presidency,” Video premiere: Thursday, May 5, 7:00 p.m. on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary.
	Star Wars Fan Fest, Friday, May 6, 6:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch. Children under 12 must be accompanied by an adult. Dress up like your favorite character!  Special Guests – Authors Kristin Baver and Daniel Jose Older.
		6:30 p.m. – Talk and Book Signing with Kristin Baver.  An associate editor for StarWars.com, Kristin Baver also hosts the popular YouTube show “This Week! in Star Wars.” Baver has written many children’s and non-fiction books on Star Wars, most recently “Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual History” and “Skywalker: A Family at War.”
		7:30 p.m. – Talk and Book Signing with Daniel Jose Older.  Daniel Jose Older is a lead story architect for Star Wars: The High Republic and author of the monthly comic series “The High Republic Adventures.” In Older’s latest High Republic novel, “Midnight Horizon,” Jedi Knights and their Padawans will be put to the ultimate test when they confront the anarchistic marauders known as the Nihil.
	Daniel José Older, author of “Ballad & Dagger: An Outlaw Saints Novel,” Saturday, May 7, 2:00 p.m. Headquarters. Doors open at 1:00 p.m. Books for signing will be available for purchase from The Novel Neighbor.
	Ekemini Uwan, Christina Edmundson, and Michelle Higgins, authors of “Truth’s Table: Black Women’s Musings on Life, Love, and Liberation,” Video premiere: May 9, 7:00 p.m. on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary.  Books available from Left Bank Books.
	Jeremy Denk, author of "Every Good Boy Does Fine: A Love Story, In Music Lessons," Video premiere: May 11, 7:00 p.m. on www.facebook.com/STLCoLibrary. In Conversation with Internationally Renowned Conductor Leonard Slatkin.
	Will Jawando, author of “My Seven Black Fathers: A Young Activist’s Memoir of Race, Family, and the Mentors Who Made Him Whole,” Friday, May 13, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters. In Conversation with St. Louis City Mayor Tishaura Jones. (Seating is limited; early arrival is recommended.)
	Chris Bohjalian, author of “The Lioness,” in Conversation with HEC Media Host Brenda Madden, Saturday, May 14, 7:00 p.m. Headquarters.
	St. Louis Sports Historian Ed Wheatley, author of “Wrestling at the Chase,” Monday, May 16, 7:00 p.m., Headquarters.
	Former US Attorney General Eric Holder, author of “Our Unfinished March: The Violent Past and Imperiled Future of the Vote” Thursday, May 26, 7 pm - TICKETED IN-PERSON EVENT.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, presented the following report. Mr. Hunter projected various images on screen of the nearly completed Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building. He reported that several departments are moving into the building this week. The official building sign is up at the building.
The designers and administration met to discuss the final design for the new Ladue Branch. The Headquarters building will close Memorial Day weekend. An auction follows and demolition should be early to mid- July. Mr. Hunter said he anticipated the opening of the new building in 2024.
2021 LIBRARY AUDIT
The 2021 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and the 2021 Federal Single Audit Report are attached.  The first report includes the operation of the Library Foundation.  The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) has issued an unmodified opinion on the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.   An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements.  This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
KEB also reports that the schedule of expenditures of federal awards is fairly stated and that the District complied with the federal requirements that could have a direct effect on the federal programs for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Kristen Sorth thanked Laura Taylor and Skylar Stanley for their work on the audit.
Rick Gratza, a Partner with KEB, attended the meeting and answered all questions.
RECOMMENDATION: The Library Administration recommends the acceptance of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and the Federal Single Audit Report. Copies of the Annual Comprehensive Audit Report will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. A copy of the Federal Single Audit Report will be sent to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse as required. The reports will also be available on the Library’s website.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
2022 PENSION CONTRIBUTION
CFO Laura Taylor presented the following.
The Library’s Actuary, Milliman, has conducted the annual actuarial valuation and has calculated the Library’s annual pension contribution amount for 2022.
Milliman is recommending a contribution of $2,475,680 (see SLCL Actuarial Valuation January
1, 2022, page 2). The annual contribution has increased from the recommended contribution of
$2,192,782 in 2021 largely due to lowering the discount rate from 7% to 6.75%. The Library’s 2022 budget for this expense is $2,334,000. The net position as a percentage of total pension liability (also known as the “funded ratio”) is 93.5%, up from 92.2% in 2021 largely due to a market gain of 14.2%.
RECOMMENDATION:  Library Administration recommends the Library Board authorize the recommended amount of $2,475,680 as the annual contribution to the Pension Plan for 2022.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Barry).
MODOT EASEMENT REQUESTS AT 1640 S. LINDBERGH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following.
MoDOT is planning sidewalk improvements along Lindbergh Blvd. at the existing Headquarters location. The planned enhancements include installing ADA-compliant sidewalks and pedestrian street crossings. MoDOT is requesting both a permanent and a temporary (construction) easement from the Library District for the work.
The permanent easement requests a strip of land along Lindbergh Blvd extending from south to north for a new sidewalk. The temporary construction easement is for the right to access Library property in order to conduct the improvements. At the end of the project, the temporary easement will terminate. MoDOT is providing $4,590 as compensation for the easements.
Administration has thoroughly reviewed these easement documents. Construction activities are planned to occur during demolition and construction of the new Ladue Branch and should cause no disruption to construction activities.
RECOMMENDATION: Administration recommends the Library Board authorize the Director and CEO to execute the two easement agreements with MoDOT related to proposed sidewalk improvements at the current Headquarters location.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Sanditz).
ARPA AGREEMENT
Kristen Sorth CEO and Director, presented the report.
The St. Louis County Library was selected as the recipient of $2 million of American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds from St. Louis County to support the GrandPad and Senior Tablet Program.  Through the purchase of GrandPad tablets, other tablets for senior citizens, and accompanying subscription services, the program provides internet access and digital literacy to eligible older adults residing in St. Louis County who are impacted, or disproportionately impacted, by the COVID-19 public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.  Library Administration is seeking approval of the attached Funding Agreement with St. Louis County for the GrandPad and Senior Tablet Program.
Social isolation has disproportionately impacted seniors in our community during the pandemic.  To address this impact, the Library received $1 million in CARES Act funds in 2021 for the purchases of 1,500 GrandPad tablets for seniors.  Under the new attached funding agreement, $1 million of ARPA funds will be used to renew the GrandPad subscription for those individuals who received the tablets with CARES Act funds in 2021.  The subscriptions for the current recipients ended on March 31, 2022.  The Library expedited and executed a new one-year agreement with GrandPads to ensure the recipients could keep their tablets for another year.
The second $1 million will be used to purchase 1,500 tablets for new recipients.  Those individuals will be selected during an application process that follows the eligibility criteria outlined in the attached “Guidelines for St. Louis County Library GrandPad Program.”  The eligibility criteria include recent unemployment, increased food or housing insecurity, a low or moderate income based on Federal Poverty Guidelines and several other measures included in the guidelines.
RECOMMENDATIONS:  Library Administration recommends the Library Board authorize and approve the Funding Agreement with St. Louis County for the GrandPad and Senior Tablet Program.  In addition, the Board ratifies, authorizes and otherwise approves the Library’s renewal of its existing GrandPad subscriptions for an additional one-year term in accordance with the Master Services Agreement Order Form with GrandPad, as executed by the Director. Following the execution of the Funding Agreement, St. Louis County will make a transfer of $2 million to the St. Louis County Library to renew the existing GrandPad subscriptions and purchase additional devices for the GrandPad and Senior Tablet Program.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Patterson).
SENIOR-FRIENDLY TABLET (ARPA)
Deputy Director Eric Button presented the following report.
Administration is seeking approval of a provider for a Senior-Friendly Tablet. The tablets are made possible by American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds that will be directed to St. Louis County Library from St. Louis County following the approval by the County Council on March 1, 2022.
During the pandemic, the Library recognized the challenges faced by many seniors who became isolated and often cut off from personal connections, including their own families.  Unlike many other people who turned to technology to bridge this gap, seniors were often left behind either because they did not have access to reliable internet and devices or because they lacked experience using technology.  In 2021, the Library utilized CARES Act Funds, provided by St. Louis County, to procure a Senior-Friendly Tablet for nearly 1,500 older adults in our community.  The Library will be able to expand the Senior-Friendly Tablet program to provide tablets to an additional 1,500 users with the ARPA Funds approved by the St. Louis County Council for this purpose.
In order to determine the best solution for these additional tablets, the Library issued a Request for Proposals on April 4, 2022.  Responses were due on April 13, 2022.  Two proposals were received.  The proposals were reviewed by the Selection Committee composed of Kristen Sorth, Rebecca Maue, and Eric Button.  All three reviewers ranked the proposal from GrandPad as the lowest and best proposal for Senior-Friendly Tablets.  The GrandPad tablet includes several senior-friendly features that were not clearly addressed in the other proposal.  For example, the GrandPad tablet comes pre-loaded with an email account already set up for the senior, and there are several safety and security features built into the GrandPad solution that serve to protect vulnerable seniors against scams and other nefarious online or phone-based activities.  The Library had a positive experience working with GrandPad to provide GrandPad tablets to seniors in 2021, utilizing the funding provided by St. Louis County through the CARES Act, and has been satisfied with the performance of the GrandPad product and equipment, as well as their support team.  GrandPad users have also shared feedback about how easy the tablets are to use and how life-changing they have been.  We are confident that a new group of users will find the solution equally beneficial.
Total costs for the proposals are included in the table below.  Although GrandPad costs more than the alternative proposal, the Selection Committee determined that GrandPad is the lowest and best proposal because of the unique, beneficial features the GrandPad product and equipment offers to the senior users and GrandPad’s successful prior performance for the Library.
			Proposer
			Total Cost for 1 Year of Service for 1,500 Devices
			Cost Per Unit
			T-Mobile
			$842,340
			$561.56
			GrandPad
			$1,008,000
			$672.00
RECOMMENDATION:  Library Administration recommends that the Board authorizes the Library Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract with GrandPad for the provision of 1,500 tablets for a period of one year utilizing the funding provided by St. Louis County Government through ARPA.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Wang).
ADJOURNMENT
Johnny Wang made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss Section 610.021(12)(negotiated contracts) in addition to (1)(legal) matters (Section 610.021(1)). Joan Barry seconded.  All approved with a voice vote.
The open session adjourned at 4:39 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                            _____________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                                Date