{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CL9Q846546E9",
  "date": "2023-10-16T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, October 16, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; Gloria Carter Hicks, Hicks-Carter-Hicks; Maya Gann-Bociek, Hicks-Carter-Hicks; Aaron Van Groningen, Hicks-Carter-Hicks; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Becky Maue, Hannah Axt, Annie Fuller, Stephanie Nordmann, Emily Althoff, Deanne Davis, Terri Williams, Dany Nenninger, Lori Bochert, Jake Eubanks, Nama Chibitty, Katie Keeven, Carrie Robb, Aaron Seidel, Carla Maxwell, Heather Neill, Keir Haug, Kim Ford, Natalia Catlett, Donna Spaulding, Will LaChance, Nicole Clawson, and Anne Arthur and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the September 26, 2023 minutes (Wang/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following before the Board.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2023 is $59.7 million of the total budgeted amount of $59.9 million.
	State Grants - In September, the Library District received $13,333 in state grants. This entire amount was received from the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) for the Library’s updated website.
Expense
	Capital Improvements - In September, the Library District incurred a total of $1,479,519 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,290,425 was paid to Interior Construction Services and $120,514 to Lamar Johnson Collaborative for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in August.
	Bldg. Operations-Grounds & Outside Projects - In September, the Library District incurred a total of $27,370 in bldg. operations-grounds & outside projects expense. Of this amount, $27,313 was paid to Focal Pointe Outdoor Solutions Inc. for irrigation repair and landscaping.
The Library Board approved of the October 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Sanditz).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, reported the following information.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for September.  She said next month Social Service visits will be added to the Dashboard. Circulation for the month increased 1% over total circulation in September, 2022.  eMedia circulation increased by 12% compared to this time last year.  System-wide visits in September 2023 increased 15% over September 2022 and overall visits from January to September have increased by 10% over 2022.  Five branches saw over a 20% increase in visits compared to September 2022. Specifically, Lewis & Clark at 25%, Parkview at 24%, Thornhill at 22%, Prairie Commons at 21% and Meramec Valley at 20%.  The Dashboard includes statistics for the Library’s Mobile App in 2023. To date, patrons have used the mobile app 825,707 times. Of those individuals, 68% used an iPhone, while Android users constituted 25%.  In 2023, 10,474 new devices have launched the app. In addition to catalog searches and ‘My Account’ pages, users most frequently view eMedia and the Library’s events and classes.  Also included this month is information about Library programs.  Attendance increased by 7% compared to September 2022. From January to September, there were 12,574 programming sessions with 281,810 attendees. This included 102 author visits with 13,251 attendees. Also, 760 patrons booked a session with a trainer, librarian, or genealogist and the study rooms were booked a total of 29,453 times.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1c)
	She said the Area Resources for Community & Human Services (ARCHS) was awarded a multi-year grant from the USDA to address on-going food desert concerns in St. Louis’ most under-resourced communities.  Non-profit and community organizations were encouraged to apply to receive produce boxes that were part of the grant and we did so.  The Library was awarded 60 boxes of produce for three branches, Florissant Valley, Lewis & Clark and Weber Road each Thursday during the month of October.  This award extends our summer produce distribution that was made possible with a grant from the Regional Response Team.  Each produce box can feed a family of four. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said she was thrilled to learn that the Library was awarded $594,835 from the Emergency Connectivity Fund (ECF) to provide 1,000 Chromebooks with built-in mobile internet connectivity to District residents who lack sufficient equipment and service to access the internet. The ECF is a $7 billion program through the Federal Communications Commission that helps schools and libraries provide the tools and services their communities need to access the internet.  The Library received more than 13,000 applications for 1,000 Chromebooks.  As a result, we conducted a random lottery to pull the names of 1,000 recipients.  More than 80% of the selected applicants resided in one of the priority zip codes affiliated with our underserved communities.  Florissant Valley (209), Lewis & Clark (169), and Natural Bridge (92) branches led the way, receiving the most Chromebooks for patron pickup.  All applicants were notified by Friday, October 6, 2023 and 400 of the Chromebooks had been picked up by the following Monday.  The Chromebooks do not need to be returned to the Library.  Recipients can keep the device to use indefinitely; however, internet access will end on June 30, 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	She said that Notary services continue to grow in popularity.  An analysis of August 2023 compared to the same month a year before shows a 53% increase in transactions.  In August alone, Library employees notarized over 1,800 documents for patrons.  Patron feedback expresses tremendous satisfaction and gratitude for the service. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c)
	For the second year in a row, the Library had an outreach booth at Tower Grove Pride. Employees connected with over 1,200 people at the booth and shared information about Library services and upcoming programs.  In addition, over 45 people received new or replacement library cards. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 2a, 2c, 2d, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
	National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo) programming returns to the Library in November, with twenty drop-in writing sessions scheduled at various branches.  The Reference Department will present several sessions of a “How to Get Published” program that highlights Library resources. Adult Services is again partnering with NaNoWriMo’s St. Louis Chapter to host a virtual kickoff event on Thursday, October 26, weekly “Come Write In” events over Zoom on Tuesday evenings in November, and the annual “Evening of Scribing Recklessly” at Mid-County on Saturday, November 18. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1d)
	On December 8th, Adult Services and the History and Genealogy Departments will present the 2nd annual Beercember: A Celebration of Brewing History in St. Louis. Patrons will enjoy live music, a Beer Barons lecture from Bellefontaine Cemetery, and samples from Narrow Gauge, Old Bridgeview, Third Wheel, Freestyle, and 2nd Shift breweries. This year, Beercember will take place at the Grant's View Branch from 6:00 – 9:00 p.m.  Last year, over 180 people attended the program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth announced that St. Louis County Library will host the 44th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival from October 18-28, 2023. The Festival will include performances by nationally renowned storytellers as well as writing workshops, dance performances, puppetry, songwriting tutorials, ghost stories, folklore and more. Storytelling Festival events will take place at a variety of venues through the St. Louis region, including SLCL branch locations, the Missouri History Museum and the St. Louis Ethical Society.  The storytellers will also make 61 school visits and ten visits to senior living facilities.  The St. Louis Storytelling Festival is one of the largest free storytelling festivals in the world, and is the only celebration of its kind in the St. Louis region. For more than 40 years, most recently under the guidance of the University of Missouri Extension, the St. Louis Storytelling Festival has reached diverse audiences across the region with storytelling programs designed to interpret and explore the human experience. St. Louis County Library became the new home for the Festival in 2022. Last year, 8,400 people attended the festivities. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 1a)
	From October 2-30th, History & Genealogy will be debuting a Family History Month webinar series. This year’s theme is Advanced Techniques for American Research. As of October 1st, the first session has 294 registrations. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, 3d, Increase Access 2c)
	On November 18th, representatives from the Library will attend St. Louis County’s Adoption Day. Library employees will distribute Raise a Reader bags to each child/teen at their final adoption hearing. The Raise a Reader bags are sponsored by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and made possible through a grant from Delta Dental. Bags are created for five different age groups and contain books, journals and colored pencils along with Library information. To date, over 400 bags have been created and donated to the County Courts for youth to receive at their final adoption hearing. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2c, 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	She said that the Parents as Teacher (PAT) Early Literacy Kits created to enrich early literacy skills during home visits will be distributed to eight school district PAT groups in the next couple of weeks.  Those school districts include Bayless, Ferguson-Florissant, Hancock Place, Hazelwood, Jennings, Mehlville, Ritenour and Riverview Gardens. This project was made possible through a grant from PNC Bank. Each school district will receive 25 themed kits such as colors and shapes, opposites, bath time, emotions and nutrition. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth said that the annual Small Business and Nonprofit Conference was held on October 4th, 5th, and 6th. This year, we partnered with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL) to offer a St. Louis wide library conference. On October 4th, patrons were invited to the Central Branch of SLPL to learn more about resources within St. Louis that can help with starting and running a business or nonprofit. On October 5th, patrons visited the Florissant Valley Branch to learn more about library resources and visit with organizations that work with small businesses and nonprofits. On October 6th, all sessions were held virtually.  Over 200 people attended each day. Small Business Ambassadors were also on hand to offer assistance by moderating sessions, giving directional assistance, or interacting with patrons.  Surveys all shared positive feedback. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 2a, 3c, Sense of Community 1d, 2d, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	Last month, for Library Card Signup Month, Adult Services created a newsletter, “Beyond Books: A Daily Dive into the Library,” that explored many of the things the Library has to offer beyond its collection of books and other materials. With the help of many departments, “Beyond Books” aimed to highlight the depth and breadth of what the Library offers.  There were over 530 subscribers to the newsletter.  The most popular discoveries were about the document, printing, computer and notary services, with the Library of Things as a close second. When asked about their favorite newly-discovered resource or service, one patron replied, “All of it. Too many wonderful things to choose just one thing” and another wrote: “I regularly read my SLCL emails, so I already knew about many of the things you all offer. My biggest surprises I got from these emails was about small businesses (which I shared with my wife), the public printing options (which I shared with many people), and the genealogy services (which I shared with my dad who is really into that). I know you all are great, but it never ceases to amaze me just how much you all offer the public! Just know there are many of us out here that love what you all are doing!” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 3d; Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	The Library continues to add valuable resources for patrons, including full digital access to the St. Louis Business Journal weekly edition, daily editorial content and the Journal’s Book of Lists. Patrons can access the St. Louis Business Journal for free with their Library card. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2d, 3b)
	Last week, Ms. Sorth attended a meeting of community organizations brought together by Alderwoman Cara Spencer and the History Museum to discuss the 150th Anniversary of the Eads Bridge in 2024.  The Museum will open an exhibit celebrating this magnificent structure on April 6, 2024.  This meeting brought various organizations together to share information about the History Museum’s exhibit, to discuss what else is currently being planned in the community, and to brainstorm possible collaborations for 2024. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
	She said the Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures were shown from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Little Readers Festival at Florissant Valley, Potty Training 101 Class at Grand Glaize, Fierce Reads Panel at Grant’s View, Family Sneaker Ball at Daniel Boone, Author Tui Sutherland at The J, Coding 101 at Rock Road, Coloring Olympics at Weber Road, Author Jacob Patrick Green at Grant’s View, Infant Massage at Florissant Valley, Puppetry and Poetry at Natural Bridge.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth offered congratulations to Becky Maue, the Library's Special Project Coordinator.  She said Becky has been named the 2023 Outstanding Library Employee by the Missouri Library Association.  The Outstanding Library Employee Award recognizes a library employee who has made a significant contribution to the improvement and advancement of library and information services. Becky has been an employee of St. Louis County Library for 12 years starting in Youth Services and moving to the Special Projects Coordinator position in February of 2022.  Becky is an employee who is “truly exceptional on all counts” with advanced skills in organization, communication, technology, writing, and problem solving. As Special Projects coordinator, one of the first projects that Becky was challenged with was coordination of GrandPads, a service to provide “senior-friendly” tablets to older adults with limited technology experience. Becky has become a friend and confidant to so many GrandPad recipients as she patiently worked with older adults in our community.   Becky also expertly writes many of the nominations for various regional and library awards.  She carefully researches each subject and interviews Library employees to accurately tell the story and make a compelling case for each award.  From the nomination that we submitted for Becky,
"The Library succeeds because of its employees who often make unseen contributions.  It is only fitting that Becky, who is so deeply invested in telling the Library’s story to our region, state, and beyond, receives the opportunity to step out of the shadows and into the spotlight in recognition of her incredible contributions to making St. Louis County Library a beloved, trusted, and esteemed institution."  (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Becky Maue thanked the Board and everyone in attendance for their congratulatory remarks concerning her award.
	Ms. Sorth said the Library was thrilled to provide full-time employees with Pension Statements for the first time.  These statements provide information on an employee’s projected pension benefits at retirement age.  The Library worked with Milliman, the Library's actuary, to prepare these statements and employees will receive a pension statement every year.  Their next statements will be distributed sometime in the first quarter of 2024.  The statements were well received by employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 2c)
	Ms. Sorth said she and Eric Button met with officials from the Board of Elections to gather information about their thoughts regarding early voting at Library locations in 2024.  Last year, the early voting sites at the Mid-County and Daniel Boone branches were two of their most successful sites. They asked to meet with them well in advance of the 2024 election to allow us to plan for crowds and reserve meeting rooms for early voting before we have programs or community meetings planned in those spaces.  The most significant impact will come in August and November of 2024 when more than half of our locations will be early voting sites for the two weeks prior to those elections.  In addition, most, if not all, of our locations will again be used as polling places on actual election days.  The Board of Elections is extremely grateful, and they are always complimentary of our planning and execution for these events.  Last year, a Branch Manager suggested we take the opportunity to promote library programs and services while so many people are in our locations to vote.  She said they will do so in 2024. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c, 2b, 2c)
	The Library was recently contacted by a representative of the Nanjing Sister City Committee.  The Committee was interested in honoring Dr. Chingling Tai, who was a member of the St. Louis County Library Board of Trustees and a member of the Nanjing Sister City committee, for her commitment and contributions to both organizations.  Dr. Tai passed away in May.  The Nanjing Sister City committee will provide a plaque honoring Dr. Tai that will be displayed at the Thornhill Branch. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a)
	Library employees are to be commended for pledges and gifts totaling $17,642 in the 2023 United Way campaign. We surpassed last year’s total giving by more than $2,000.  Congratulations to Library employees for their generosity. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth said she’s been asked to serve on the St. Louis Broadband Coalition committee.  The first meeting took place on October 3.  She has also been asked to serve on the Statewide Advisory Council for the Connecting All Missourians Initiative.  The first meeting will take place tomorrow in Jefferson City.  The Office of Broadband Development (OBD) has formed an advisory council to serve throughout the planning process for the Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment (BEAD) program and Digital Equity Act (DEA).  The Connecting All Missourians advisory council will provide guidance and serve in an advisory capacity during OBD’s planning process. The advisory council has been funded to convene two times a year in person through 2028 as needed.  Each member will be asked to engage their respective stakeholders. As part of the engagement process, OBD is tasked with producing a 5 Year Action Plan, Initial Proposal, and Final Proposal for the BEAD program and a State Digital Equity Plan for the DEA. The advisory council will provide guidance and advice on the compilation of each Plan. The council members will be asked to:
			Contribute to the state’s plan for BEAD funds and efforts to improve the state’s broadband infrastructure.
			Contribute to the state’s plan for DEA funds and efforts to help Missourians overcome noninfrastructure barriers to getting online.
			Advise the state on policy questions and program design.
			Provide comments on draft policy documents.
			Identify digital connectivity needs across the state and propose tools to address those needs.
			Serve as ambassadors in and beyond their geographic and professional communities, encouraging participation in broadband planning efforts.
			Represent their geographic and professional communities and the interests of the public during the broadband planning process and at statewide and regional meetings convened by OBD.
Ms. Sorth said that she is very honored to serve on this committee with leaders and elected officials from across the State of Missouri.  She is one of just two people that will represent the St. Louis region.  The other is Representative Jay Mosley who represents parts of north St. Louis County. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 2b, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
	The current Staff Development Cohort is nearing completion. In addition to meeting all the departments of the Library, they have also participated in system-wide activities like the Storytelling Festival, Little Readers Festival, and the Hip Hop Block Party.  The cohort also worked to build telescopes, assemble Born to Read bags and assist at author events. At the end of the program, the Cohort always meets with a community leader who provides a regional perspective. This year, the group will meet with Dr. Kanika Cunningham (Director of St. Louis County Department of Public Health) who will provide a regional perspective on public health with an emphasis on the role that the Library plays in that area.  At the November Board Meeting, the Cohort will present to the Library Board about their experience. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 2d, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
	She said the Employee Engagement Committee has introduced three events for fall and winter 2023.
The Pumpkin Decorating Contest is open to all employees. To participate, employees may submit a picture of their decorated pumpkin for a chance to win gift cards. Employees may also participate in Fall into Fitness, the annual wellness challenge where employees can log minutes of physical activity. Those who complete the challenge will be entered into a raffle to win gift cards.  The Employee Engagement Committee is also planning Light Up the Library--the employee celebration event is scheduled for Sunday, December 10th at the Saint Louis Zoo. The family-friendly event will have hot chocolate, hors d'oeuvres, and cake as well as access to the Zoo grounds for their annual Wild Lights. Wild Lights offers winter-related activities for kids, live entertainment, festive food, and holiday beverages with dazzling light displays. All engagement activities are funded by the Library Foundation.  Last year, 700 people attended the fun event.  These included Library employees and their friends and family members. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	New people counters have been installed at all of the branches.  These counters will provide accurate data on Library visits and replace the need to maintain separate people counters on the security gates.  The data will automatically be entered into the manufacturer’s software.  This software allows the Library to access very detailed reports such as analysis by day of the week and hour by hour.  This level of specific data has never been available to us in the past, and it should help us better target library services, hours, and programs to best meet the needs of the community. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The majority of the Library’s branches have switched over to a new sorting process that streamlines material handling at the branches, reduces the number of totes transported in delivery and leverages the benefit of the automated materials handler at the Beck.  These changes save time, but they also free up valuable space in employees’ work areas at the branches because it greatly reduces the number of totes that must be stored.  It is expected that all locations will change to this new process within a few weeks. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library Foundation was awarded $5,000 from the Incarnate Word Foundation to support social worker services at the Library. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c)
	The Library and Foundation have submitted 49 grant applications so far in 2023. The success rate for Foundation grants is 33% and 42% for Library grants. This year, the Library and Foundation have been awarded $1,183,000 compared to $166,000 in 2022. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Author Events
The following Upcoming Author Events were shared with the Board. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Fergus Bordewich, author of “Klan War:  Ulysses S. Grant and the Battle to Save Reconstruction,” Monday, October 16, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Patrick Bringley, author of “All the Beauty in the World: The Metropolitan Museum of Art and Me,” Tuesday, October 24, 2023, 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Saint Louis Art Museum.
	Derrick Barnes, author of “Like Lava in My Veins,” Tuesday, October 24, 2023, 6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Cozy Con 2023 featuring Vivien Chien – “Misfortune Cookie: A Noodle Shop Mystery,” Diane Kelly – “Snow Place for Murder: A Mountain Lodge Mystery,” Mia P. Manansala – “Murder and Mamon: A Tita Rosie’s Kitchen Mystery,” Ellie Alexander – “Catch Me If You Candy: A Bakeshop Mystery,” Korina Moss – “Case of the Blues: A Cheese Shop Mystery,” Friday, October 27, 2023, 6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch
	Angela Cervantes, author of ‘The Cursed Man,” Sunday, October 29, 2023,2:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Oct 30, 7:00 pm – The Library will host New York Times columnist and bestselling author David Brooks in partnership with Washington University. This sold out event will be hosted in Graham Chapel.
	Maria Smilios, author of “The Black Angels,” the Untold Story of the Nurses Who Helped Cure Tuberculosis,” Thursday, November 2, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., The J.
	Kate Klise, author of “How Mr. Silver Stole the Show,” Sunday, November 5, 2023, 2:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Emily Bain Murphy, author of “Enchanted Hill,” in Conversation with Kayla Olson, author of "The Reunion." Wednesday, November 8, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Gilly Macmillan and Lori Rader-Day, authors of “The Perfect Girl and The Manor House,” Thursday, November 9, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Andy Griffiths, author of “The 156 Story Treehouse,” Friday, November 10, 2023, 6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Travis Baldree, author of “Bookshops and Bonedust,” Friday, November 10, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Martin Walker, author of “A Chateau Under Seige,” Wednesday, November 15, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Tom Clavin, author of “The Last Outlaws: The Desperate Final Days of The Dalton Gang,” Thursday, November 16, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
HICKS CARTER HICKS DEIB PRESENTATION
Director Sorth introduced Gloria Carter-Hicks of Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH).  This year, the Library hired the HCH to conduct a review of the state of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging (DEIB) in the Library. They have previously worked with the Library on the Community Conversations study.  HCH focused on the experience and perspectives of all library employees, looking internally at the Library and the work culture rather than looking outward at the way the Library serves the community.  The Hicks-Carter-Hicks employees—Gloria Carter Hicks, Aaron Van Groninge, and Maya Gann-Bociek presented their research findings and recommendations based on a review of HR policies, interviews of the Library Board, administrators, managers and employees, a survey for all employees (67% of employees responded) and focus groups.  Overall they concluded that St. Louis County Library is a DEIB leader with policies and practices that equitably support a diverse, inclusive workforce. Based on survey feedback, SLCL employees have an incredibly strong personal commitment to DEIB (scoring 4.71 out of 5) and feel positive about the DEIB culture at SLCL (scoring 3.98 out of 5).  Hicks-Carter-Hicks provided several helpful recommendations for how the Library can support its current employees even more and continue building a diverse and inclusive workplace.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented pictures of the ongoing construction of Clark Family Branch. He said that weather proofing is currently taking place. Metal panels and stone panels were recently installed. The transformer and gas meter is in place. The HVAC system is coming soon. The parking lot is being prepared for a base coat.  Mr. Hunter also pointed out that 23.8 % of the construction workforce at the Clark Family Branch are minority.
ADDITIONAL FURNITURE AT THE LYNN BECKWITH, JR. ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, made the following report.
The 2023 approved Library Budget includes $55,000 for additional furniture at the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building. The building was occupied in May 2022. At that time it was anticipated that additional furniture needs would be identified as employees started working in the new building.
The list of requests from department managers has been compiled and validated by Kelli Reeves, Manager of Facilities. CI Select is offering the selected furniture with pricing from a negotiated government contract for $53,148.27. The Board’s Policy I Procurement Procedures states that the Library District may make purchases directly from federal, state, county, or other cooperative purchasing agreements.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the purchase of additional furniture from CI Select at the negotiated government contract price of $53,148.27. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
FURNITURE AND SHELVING FOR THE CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following.
On September 18, 2023, Administration issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for Furniture and Shelving at the new Clark Family Branch. Bid packages were developed around open lines and Bidders were invited to bid on shelving, furniture, or both. A link to the bid documents was posted on the Library’s website. In addition, eleven local firms, seven of which are M/WBE certified, were contacted directly. Nineteen companies viewed the bid documents.
Two responses – one for shelving, one for furniture – were received by the time of the public bid opening via Zoom on October 10, 2023. All requirements of the Library’s bid procedure were followed. Both bidders included all documentation required of the IFB and submitted qualified responses.
In addition to the shelving and furniture listed in the IFB, a high-density shelving system is included in the branch plans. This is the Datum system in use at the Beck. It is valued at $720,000 and available under a negotiated government contract. The Board’s Policy I Procurement Procedures states that the Library District may make purchases directly from federal, state, county, or other cooperative purchasing agreements.
The total cost for shelving and furniture for the Clark Family Branch is $2,354,542.66. The overall furniture and shelving budget for this work is $2,500,000.00.
Library Administration recommends the Board selects the firms listed below for Furniture and Shelving at the new Clark Family Branch and that it authorizes the Director to enter into and execute contracts to that effect:
	Furniture: CI Select for $1,412,344.60.
	Shelving: Modern Business Interiors for $222,198.06.
	High-density shelving: Datum for $720,000.00
Library Administration recommends the Board selects the firms listed below for Furniture and Shelving at the new Clark Family Branch and that it authorizes the Director to enter into and execute contracts to that effect:
- Furniture: CI Select for $1,412,344.60.
- Shelving: Modern Business Interiors for $222,198.06.
- High-density shelving: Datum for $720,000.00
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
COLOCATION SERVICES CONTRACT
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director of ITS, presented the following.
The Library’s disaster recovery site presence at Hostirian’s West Port facility commenced in December of 2017.  In November of 2020, the Library Board approved a three-year contract extension for colocation services with Hostirian.  The current three-year contract with Hostirian expires in December of 2023.  The Library’s ITS department relies heavily on the stability of the disaster recovery site in this colocation space.  The colocation space requires significant collaboration with Charter Spectrum to include the Library’s Wide Area Network and Internet services at Hostirian’s data center.  Hostirian won the 2017 RFP because of their low cost, location and flexibility.  They have delivered on all aspects of their proposal and have provided the Library with excellent colocation services.
Given the expense, time, effort and complexity that would be involved with moving to a different colocation site, Administration believes it to be in the best interest of the Library to extend the current contract with Hostirian.
The Library wishes to continue to utilize Hostirian’s services by amending the current contract and extending the term for an additional three years at the current annual rate of $13,240.  Doing so will allow the Library to maintain uninterrupted disaster preparedness for the Library’s network computing infrastructure.
Library Administration recommends amending and extending the current colocation services contract with River City Internet Group, doing business as Hostirian  at the current annual cost of $13,240 per year, commencing January of 2024 through December of 2026 and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.  This expense will be paid for with funds from the technology budget.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sanditz/Wang).
ADJOURNMENT
Johnny Wang made a motion to adjourn the meeting.  Joan Barry seconded.  All agreed with voice vote. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
The meeting adjourned at 5 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
________________________________                                _____________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                              Date