{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CL9Q6Y6543A2",
  "date": "2023-11-20T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, November 20, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President via telephone
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Terri Williams, Melisa Albers, Nona Chibitty, Carrie Robb, Sarah Brown, Laura Kasak, Carla Maxwell, Brent Trout, Heather Neill, Yecenia Arango, Lana Delf, Anne Arthur, Stephanie Nordmann, Lindsay Peich, Terence McCoy, Will LaChance, Amy Hanaway, Chris Goodman, Rachel Dippel, Thomas Parsons, Jessica Dela Cruz, Alyssa Fakes, Emma Figueroa, Melissa Bauer, Trista Doyle, Andrea Carter, Nora Marino, Lisa Haddix, Allison Wisniewski, Mary Arnhart, Phil Barry, Matt Lakin, Donna Spaulding, Sarah Wood, Emily Althoff, Miriam Althoff, Andrea Johnson, and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the October 16, 2023 minutes (Patterson/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Mr. Doug Devitre shared comments regarding resources offered by the Library.  He said he had saved about $8,000 by using the Libraries resources. He also mentioned that his son is homeschooled and elaborated on several topics.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor. CFO presented the following.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2023 is $59.7 million of the total budgeted amount of $59.9 million.
	State Aid - In October, the Library District received $307,811 in Missouri State Aid. This is the first of two payments for St. Louis County’s 2024 fiscal year. The Library District is budgeting $616,000 in 2024 for Missouri State Aid.
	E-Rate Discounts - In October, the Library District received $78,733 in E-rate rebates for fiscal year 2023. These rebates help to cover the cost of the Library’s Wi-Fi, fiber internet, and Wide Area Network (WAN) from Charter Communications.
Expense
	Technology - Maintenance Agreements - In October, the Library District incurred a total of $74,781 in Technology - Maintenance Agreements expense. Of this amount, $45,857 was paid to ConvergeOne, Inc. for the Meraki and Veeam annual support renewals and $25,146 to Carahsoft Technology Corporation for the Google Chrome Enterprise support renewal. The Library Board approved this renewal at the August Board Meeting.
	Capital Improvements - In October, the Library District incurred a total of $1,590,692 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,545,975 was paid to Interior Construction Services and $36,515 to Lamar Johnson Collaborative for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in September.
The Library Board approved of the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sanditz/Wang).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for October.  Circulation for the month increased 4% over total circulation in October, 2022.  eMedia circulation increased by 22% compared to this time last year and is 61% higher than eMedia circulation in 2019.  System-wide visits in October 2023 increased 9% over October, 2022.  Three branches saw large increases in visits compared to October 2022:  Prairie Commons at 30%, Parkview at 20%, and Grant’s View at 24%.  The Dashboard also includes data about social worker referrals from May – October.  The most common types of referrals were for housing, utility assistance, mental health, food assistance and referrals for public benefits.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said that Rx Outreach provided almost $11,000 in funding for the Library to continue its produce box delivery through the month of November.  RX Outreach CEO, Julie Erickson, said the following about their support, “At Rx Outreach, we are all about helping individuals live their healthiest lives, and we’re pleased to support St. Louis County Library in their healthy food is medicine initiative.  Healthy eating is the foundation of good health, and when we integrate food and nutrition into our diet, we help fight the growing epidemic of obesity and its diet-related diseases.”  The Library distributed 60 boxes of produce for three branches, Florissant Valley, Lewis & Clark and Weber Road on three Thursdays during the month of November.  This award extends our summer produce distribution that was made possible with a grant from the Regional Response Team.  In October, the Library was able to distribute produce through a grant from ARCHS.  Each produce box can feed a family of four. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c)
	For some time, the Library has been exploring the idea of a food pantry with Operation Food Search.  We will be piloting this concept at Florissant Valley and Rock Road in December.  These branches will have shelf-stable healthy snacks available for patrons in need.  This will be a very soft launch until we get a clear understanding of how this will impact the branches.  On many occasions, patrons experiencing food insecurity visit the branches for assistance.  The pantry will give employees the ability to assist in these situations. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Several administrators visited St. Louis Public Library’s Julia Davis Branch to learn about their Creative Experience space.  The administrators gained a lot of helpful information for the planning of the OCI Creative Lab at the Clark Family Branch.  Ms. Sorth said administrators are  currently refining plans for the space, equipment, and staffing. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	She said plans are in place for the migration to Vega Program from Demco.  Vega Program will be used to track meeting room reservations, library events, and program registration.  The transition to this new product will begin with employee training in January and February, followed by data entry into Vega Program in March and April.  The new product will be live on the Library’s website on April 15, 2024.  There will be some minor disruptions to public access to meeting rooms while this migration is taking place. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	She shared that all five social worker positions are once again filled.  The Epworth team is currently presenting training to Library employees to help them better serve the public.  The first training classes focused on de-escalation techniques.  Epworth is currently presenting training on Mental Health First Aid.  Through the end of October, the social workers had already served more than 500 individuals, and demand for their services remains high. (Plan: Sense of Community 1d, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Over 1,300 patrons of all ages registered for this year’s Fall into Fitness Challenge, with over 500 completions. Participants logged either 30 miles of walking or 900 minutes of activity on paper logs found at branches or online through Beanstack. That equates to over 15,000 miles walked or over 7,500 hours of activity. Winners were selected earlier this month, with prizes including $100 gift cards to REI and Dick’s Sporting Goods. We look forward to planning another successful fitness challenge next year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 3)
	Ms. Sorth said the Soldier's Memorial Military Museum downtown recently underwent a $30-million-dollar renovation. In order to help develop new audiences and to spark interest in the community, Soldier's Memorial approached SLCL about displaying some temporary exhibits of photos and research in the branches. Topics include the revitalization of the Memorial downtown; The Vietnam War: At War and at Home; and WWI: St. Louis and the Great War. We are displaying these three exhibits at five branches (Cliff Cave, Parkview, Eureka Hills, Thornhill, Prairie Commons) during the months of November (for Veterans Day) and May (in honor of Memorial Day). (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	In 2024, a banner exhibition developed by the National Park Service about the history of slavery in St. Louis will travel to seven branches (Prairie Commons, Bridgeton Trails, Daniel Boone, Lewis & Clark, Jamestown Bluffs, Parkview, Thornhill) from January until April. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth reported that St. Louis County Library hosted the 44th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival from October 18-28, 2023. The Festival included performances by nationally renowned storytellers as well as writing workshops, dance performances, puppetry, songwriting tutorials, ghost stories, folklore and more. Storytelling Festival events took place at a variety of venues through the St. Louis region, including SLCL branch locations, the Missouri History Museum and the St. Louis Ethical Society.  The storytellers made 61 school visits and ten visits to senior living facilities. The St. Louis Storytelling Festival is one of the largest free storytelling festivals in the world, and is the only celebration of its kind in the St. Louis region. For more than 40 years, most recently under the guidance of the University of Missouri Extension, the St. Louis Storytelling Festival has reached diverse audiences across the region with storytelling programs designed to interpret and explore the human experience. St. Louis County Library became the new home for the Festival in 2022. Last year, 8,400 people attended the festivities. This year 11,403 people attended, representing a 27% increase in attendance!  Congratulations to the planning committee for their amazing work on the Festival. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 1a)
	On November 18th, representatives from the Library, the Foundation and donors attended St. Louis County’s Adoption Day. Those that attended distributed Raise a Reader bags to each child/teen at their final adoption hearing. The Raise a Reader bags are sponsored by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and made possible through a grant from Delta Dental. Bags are created for five different age groups and contain books, journals and colored pencils along with Library information. To date, over 400 bags have been created and donated to the County Courts for youth to receive at their final adoption hearing. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2c, 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	The Library, along with Recollect, is creating a Digital Archive Management System. The Digital Archive, made possible by an LSTA grant, will host some of the collections that may be found in History & Genealogy (H&G). The first documents include burial certificates of St. Louis, city directories of St. Louis City/County and other parts of Missouri, and a vast collection of yearbooks. This archive will continue to grow. Successful implementation means that H&G can begin eliminating outdated technology with limited access issues, put the materials in the hands of patrons across the world, and provide our branches with greater access to materials that are protected under copyright. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	She said the 2nd Annual Teen Book Festival will be held on Saturday, December 2nd from 1:00-5:30 p.m. at Ladue Horton Watkins High School. We are very excited about this year’s lineup including Neal Shusterman, Kendare Blake, Alexandrea Bracken, Justin A. Reynolds, Lio Min, Kim Johnson and Adib Khorram. There will be 19 authors in attendance speaking on panels in breakout sessions and ending the day with a book signing. Books will be available for purchase from The Novel Neighbor. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 2b, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 3b)
	The Winter Reading Challenge will kick off December 1 and run through January 31. This challenge is activity-based.  Data is recorded online by patrons via Beanstack or the Beanstack Tracker mobile app. Patrons can print a log sheet from the website to help with tracking. Participants who complete any five activities will be entered in the electronic raffle for their age group. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2b)
	The Library continues to add valuable electronic resources for patrons. Craft & Hobby is a video tutorial resource that covers all topics related to crafts and hobbies. Topics include crochet, painting, cake design, photography, woodworking, and fitness. There are 4,000+ hours of content available in both English and Spanish. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2c, 2d, 3b)
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth displayed pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Little Readers Festival at Florissant Valley, Potty Training 101 Class at Grand Glaize, Fierce Reads Panel at Grant’s View, Family Sneaker Ball at Daniel Boone, Author Tui Sutherland at The J, Coding 101 at Rock Road, Coloring Olympics at Weber Road, Author Jacob Patrick Green at Grant’s View, Infant Massage at Florissant Valley, Puppetry and Poetry at Natural Bridge, Small Business Launchpad at Natural Bridge, Music and Movement at Grand Glaize, Cozy Con at Grant’s View and author David Brooks at Graham Chapel at Washington University.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Finance recently purchased online software called Debtbook to help with the compliance of a new accounting standard (GASB 96). Specifically, it is a subscription-based IT arrangements (SBITAs) management tool. This tool will automate time-consuming processes and eliminate manual data entry. It will also allow collaboration between the Library’s various departments that are responsible for purchasing SBITAs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2d)
	Ms. Sorth said that Library employees, working directly with the public, often encounter challenging situations and incidents that they must navigate using their training and skills while applying the Library’s policies and procedures. These situations are often stressful and require much time and energy on the part of managers, public safety specialists, and other frontline employees. Employees may encounter threats or acts of violence, substance abuse, inappropriate computer use, medical emergencies, and unattended children to name a few. Each situation requires individual assessment and application of policy and procedure, and these actions and decisions are typically made under duress. Our employees perform admirably under these challenging circumstances and they act decisively in the interest of public and employee safety. Administration is extremely appreciative of these efforts by our employees to make the patrons’ library visits safer and more enjoyable. These issues are not isolated to the St. Louis region. Most public libraries are experiencing an increase in these situations.  Recently, the employees at Natural Bridge have been handling many challenging situations related to teens after school.  We want to commend them for their efforts.  She said the Library is working with the Normandy School District, Epworth, the Normandy Police Department and other community groups to address many of these issues.  Various Library administrators are making regular visits to Natural Bridge and they have been assigned two Public Safety Specialists.  Employees at Lewis & Clark, Prairie Commons, Thornhill and Weber Road are also experiencing similar situations.  We want to thank them for their efforts as well. (Plan: Sense of Community 3, Increase Access 1)
	Communications is working on a new logo for the Preschool Outreach Program (POP) which will be installed on the POP van. POP encourages early literacy and delivers specially designed early childhood literacy kits to preschool and daycare facilities on a regular schedule.  Caregivers can use these items to present story times and other learning experiences at their facilities. Home-based providers may receive library material through the mail on a regular schedule.   Bookmobile Department employees visit 95 sites each month. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said that the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) recommendations from Hicks-Carter-Hicks were presented to all of the managers and assistant managers on November 9th.  The attendees also participated in small group breakout sessions to develop action items related to the recommendations in the report. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	The Training Department continues to provide regular training for employees on a variety of topics.  They have also created several short classes in Dayforce Learning which are available for employees to review at any time. (Plan: Sense of Community 1d)
	Ms. Sorth said she will be attending a breakfast and discussion hosted by the Clark-Fox Family Foundation and the Berges Family Foundation on December 4th.  The two organizations are hosting all of the corporate and family foundations as well as various non-profits in the region to discuss early literacy initiatives.  I was invited to attend along with Waller McGuire, the CEO of St. Louis Public Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	The City of St. Louis, St. Louis Development Corporation (SLDC), and TechSTL are taking bold steps to close the digital divide and achieve digital equity in St. Louis. To encourage collaboration and cooperation with technology-driven businesses and community stakeholders, they are forming a Digital Equity & Inclusion Coalition for the region. The first Digital Inclusion Summit will take place on December 5th from 8:30 – 4:00.  Ms. Sorth is working on the planning committee for the event and will be presenting about efforts to increase digital literacy. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Library received an incentive check from Ameren for $3,601 in response to the installation of an electric vehicle charging station at the Beck. (Plan: Increase Access 1)
	The Library’s architects, Lamar Johnson (LJC), received an AIA STL 2023 Merit Award for the architecture entry of the Lynn Beckwith Jr., Administrative Building “The Beck”. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	The Federated Garden Clubs of Missouri presented a citation to the Library in appreciation for the amazing landscaping at the Beck.  The members of St. Louis County Garden Club applied to the state organization on the Library’s behalf after sneaking a peak at the garden on a Sunday. The Citation of Commendation says:
The Federated Garden Clubs of Missouri, Inc. is honored to present this Citation of Commendation to St. Louis County Library for their desire to improve this land and make better for future stewards.  Their steadfastness and successful execution in beautifying for the enjoyment of others.  (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
Library Foundation
	She said the updated St. Louis County Library Foundation website went live on October 25th.  The website provides easier access to information about the Foundation and a clearer path for online donations. (Plan: Increase Access 1d)
	The Foundation’s Fall Appeal was mailed at the beginning of November. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	She said the Library is thrilled to announce that we were awarded $450,000 for a fourth new school bookmobile from the James S. McDonnell Family Foundation.  We set a goal to secure funding for three bookmobiles; however, all four are in need of replacement.  In the next two years, four new bookmobiles will be visiting schools in St. Louis County.  Family members from the Foundation contacted me to talk about the Library and our work to support early literacy.  They were also interested in our bookmobile program.  I met with six family members over Zoom in late September and received the news on October 25th.  Their email said the following.
We’re very excited about the bookmobile and impressed by all the ways you work to bring literacy and connection to St. Louisans.”
This award follows three previous gifts from Great Southern Bank, the St. Louis Cardinals and Emerson for new bookmobiles.  A press release announcing the gift from James S. McDonnell Family Foundation will be sent to media outlets the week of December 4th.  We plan to have a design a bookmobile contest that kids may enter to design the wrap for this bookmobile. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, 2d, 3a, Increase Access 1c, 2a)
	The following grants were awarded:
		The Library was awarded $20,307 from the LSTA Tech Mini Grant to replace hardware at the five automated material handler returns at Daniel Boone and Grant’s View branches and replace outdated iPads for Youth Services programming.
		The Library was awarded $3,000 from the Collaborative Summer Library Program Promotional Grant for 2024 Summer Reading Club.
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation is pleased to be a sponsor of a special event with acclaimed children’s book author Jason Reynolds and award-winning illustrators Jarrett and Jerome Pumphrey. Reynolds and the Pumphrey Brothers discussed their new picture book “There was a Party for Langston,” a celebration of the work of poet Langston Hughes. Jason Reynolds is the recipient of a Newbery Honor, a Printz Honor, an NAACP Image Award, and multiple Coretta Scott King honors. Reynolds was the 2020-2022 National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature.  The event was presented earlier today by the Noble Neighbor, non-profit foundation for indie bookstore the Novel Neighbor, and the St. Louis Black Authors of Children’s Literature’s Believe Project. Over 1000 area school children were transported to St. Louis University’s Chaifetz Arena today. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
Author Events were shared with the Board. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Dr. Adia Harvey Wingfield,  author of “Gray Areas: How the Way We Work Perpetuates Racism and What to Do to Fix It” - In Conversation with Natalie Self, Senior Vice President of Equitable Economic Impact, Monday, Nov 27, 7:00 p.m., - JCC’s Mirowitz Performing Arts Center.
	Jeffery Deaver, author of “The Watchmaker’s Hand: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel,” Thursday, Nov 30 - 7:00 p.m. - Grant’s View Branch.
	2023 St. Louis Teen Book Festival - Featuring 19 top YA authors, Saturday, Dec. 2, 1:00 - 5:30 p.m. - Ladue Horton Watkins High School.
	Historian H.W. Brands, author of “Founding Partisans: Hamilton, Madison, Jefferson, Adams, and the Brawling Birth of American Politics” - Presented in Partnership with the Missouri History Museum’s Thursday Nights at the Museum Series, Thursday, Dec 7 - 6:30 p.m., Missouri History Museum.
	Jan Brett, children’s book author of a new Winter Collection Box set, including classics like “Cozy” and “The Three Snow Bears,” Saturday, Dec 9 - 5:30 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
PRESENTATION BY THE STAFF DEVELOPMENT COHORT
The members of the Staff Development Cohort spoke before the Board. Each member expressed what they enjoyed and learned from the experience.  Members who spoke included:
Lucas Cusi, Library Associate at the Meramec Valley Branch
Jessica Dela Cruz, Library Associate at the Natural Bridge Branch
Lana Delf, Library Associate in the Acquisitions Department
Alyssa Fakes, Library Associate in Acquisitions Department
Sable Harp, Library Associate at the Jamestown Bluffs Branch
Thomas TC Parsons, Library Associate in the Bookmobile and Mobile Services Department
Chelsea Sharp, Library Associate at the Lewis and Clark Branch
Matthew Griffon, Service Desk Technician II in the ITS Department was not present.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assisted Director of Operations, presented the following report.  The basic outdoor paving is complete and glass has started to arrive. Fall trees are going in now. Dry wall and tape is going up. Pictures of the Kranzberg Art Gallery and the fireplace were shown.   Mr. Hunter said that glazing will take place next month.
AMENDED DRIVEWAY EASEMENT AGREEMENT AT NATURAL BRIDGE BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assisted Director of Operations, presented the following report.
In April 2023, the Library Board approved a Driveway Easement Agreement with Normandy USDA LLC, the USDA food testing facility being constructed adjacent to the Natural Bridge Branch. The original Easement Agreement dealt with rules for sharing maintenance for the driveway off Natural Bridge Road.
George Stock, the civil engineer consulting on the project, noticed a small difference between the construction drawings and the original Easement Agreement concerning the size of USDA’s truck check-in island. It is a matter of a few inches but for the sake of correctness, Mr. Stock suggested an amended agreement.
Lashly Baer has reviewed the amended agreement.
Administration recommends the Library Board approve the Amended Driveway Easement Agreement with Normandy USDA LLC and authorize the Director and CEO to execute said agreement. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Sanditz).
SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE FACILITIES MASTER PLAN ADMINISTRATOR AGREEMENT
Steve Hunter, Assisted Director of Operations, presented the following report.
On January 28, 2013, the Library entered into an agreement with Landmark Contract Management for Project Administration for the entire Facilities Master Plan program. The agreement included a termination date of December 31, 2022. On December 17, 2018, the Board approved the first contract amendment that extended the contract to December 31, 2023.
Landmark has since been acquired by Pace Properties and is now operating as Avision Young. Key personnel remain in place with Scott Kolath continuing to lead the work with the Library.
The contract extension in the First Amendment was necessary since the original Headquarters project became two separate projects, an administrative building and a branch (now the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building and the Clark Family Branch).
A Second Amendment is now needed to extend the term of the Agreement. Extending the term to December 31, 2025, will allow Avison Young to be engaged throughout the closeout process and warranty phase of the Clark Family Branch. There is no cost implication to the extension.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the Second Amendment to the Facilities Master Plan Administration Services Agreement, and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute said amendment. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Patterson).
BRANCH FLOORING REPLACEMENT
Steve Hunter, Assisted Director of Operations, presented the following report.
Seven branches (Cliff Cave, Daniel Boone, Jamestown Bluffs, Oak Bend, Parkview, Prairie Commons, and Rock Road) are in need of flooring replacement in certain areas of the branch. This is part of a regular maintenance program intended to keep the branches fresh and inviting.
The flooring materials – carpet, tile, wall base, and adhesive – are all available on a negotiated government contract for a total purchase amount of $121,790. The Board’s Policy I Procurement Procedures states that the Library District may make purchases directly from federal, state, county, or other cooperative purchasing agreements.
An Invitation for Bid (IFB) for the installation of the flooring materials was issued on October 23, 2023. It was posted on the Library’s website and directly emailed to twenty-three local interior companies. Bids were due on November 9, 2023. Three companies responded:
			Vendor
			Cost
			Flooring Systems, Inc.
			$49,695
			Richardet Floor Covering
			$56,368
			CI Flooring
			$74,395
Flooring Systems, Inc. provided the lowest and best bid response. They have previously performed this work for the Library and provided quality results.
Library Administration recommends the Board select Flooring Systems, Inc. to install flooring replacement and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sanditz/Patterson).
COFFEE BAR OPERATIONS AT CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assisted Director of Operations, presented the following report.
On October 30, 2023, Library Administration issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a three-year contract to fully equip, staff, and operate a full-featured branded coffee shop in the new Clark Family Branch. A 400 square foot space adjacent to both the adult collections area and the event space has been reserved for this purpose.
The RFP was posted on the Library’s website and directly emailed to twenty-three local coffee shop operators. Responses to the RFP were due November 9, 2023. Coma Coffee Roasters LLC submitted the only response.
Administration recommends that the Library Board select Coma Coffee Roasters LLC for a three-year contract to develop and operate a full-service coffee shop in the new Clark Family Branch and that it authorize the Director and CEO to negotiate, enter into, and execute a contract to that effect.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Wang).
LIBRARY HOURS
Eric Button, Deputy Director and Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following report.
Since returning to normal service following the COVID-19 pandemic, Library Administration has monitored the usage of branches to identify usage trends and respond to them accordingly.  One of the most noticeable observations pertains to the later evening hours offered Monday-Thursday.  Managers have often reported how few people use the Library during the 8:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. hour.  In the past, this evidence was anecdotal and could not be verified with precise statistical data.  Since the addition of new people counting devices, we are able to generate reports that show an hour-by-hour breakdown of library visits.  The final hour of the day, Monday-Thursday, accounts for a mere 1.6% of library visits system-wide on those days.    Most of the other hourly periods of the day range from 8%-11% of library visits from Monday-Thursday.
Library Administration also analyzed the hours of neighboring libraries and other large public libraries in the State of Missouri to see how St. Louis County Library’s hours compare.  Most of the peer libraries in Missouri follow a similar approach where branches close by 8:00 p.m.
As a result of the findings of this study, Library Administration is recommending that St. Louis County Library change its weekly hours effective January 2, 2024 to the following:
Monday-Thursday    9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m.
Friday-Saturday        9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.  (unchanged)
Sunday*                     1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.  (unchanged)
*select locations (Clark Family**, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley, Grant’s View, Mid-County)
**Sunday hours commencing when the Clark Family Branch opens in 2024.
While this change in hours does not have a direct impact on the Library’s budget, it does create increased scheduling flexibility to better accommodate lunch and dinner breaks and provide increased coverage when staff are off work for other reasons.
Library Administration recommends that the Board approve the proposed changes to the Library Hours, which reduces hours on Monday-Thursday from 9:00 a.m.-9:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m., to be effective beginning January 2, 2024. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Sanditz).
2024 BUDGET
The 2024 Budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget Committee consisting of the following individuals:
Kristen Sorth – Director & CEO
Laura Taylor – Chief Financial Officer
Eric Button – Deputy Director
Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS
Steve Hunter – Assistant Director, Operations
Jennifer Gibson – Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives
The 2024 Budget document is attached.  The Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2024 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
In 2024, the Library District will have a $500,000 surplus in the Maintenance and Operation Budget with a transfer of funds from the Assigned for Capital Improvements Fund.
The 2024 Budget is an informational item for this month in order to give the Library Board of Trustees time to review the document and ask questions.  The Budget Committee would like to receive your questions by December 5 so we may respond accordingly before the December Library Board Meeting. The Library Board of Trustees will vote on the 2024 Library Budget at the December Meeting. That vote will allow the Library to operate in 2024.
ADJOURNMENT
Deborah Patterson made a motion to adjourn the meeting.  Ted Sanditz seconded.  All approved with voice vote. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
Respectfully submitted,
___________________________                                          _____________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                          Date