{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CNDM9D5A237F",
  "date": "2023-02-06T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, February 6, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHER ATTENDING:
Lori Boschert, Nicole Walsh, Alaina Culbertson, Kat Van Arsdale, Eric Button, Carrie Robb, Kim Ford, Katie Keeven, Will LaChance, Beth Watts, Stephanie Nordmann, Keir Haug, Andrea Carter, Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Darien Jones, Melissa Albers, Heather Neill, Brent Trout, Nicole Clawson, Deanna Davis, Terence McCoy, Miriam Whatley, Carla Maxwell and Laura B. Kasak.
Dr. Beckwith announced that Vice President Johnny Wang had an excused absence.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the December 19, 2022 minutes (Sanditz/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to appear before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor delivered the following report at the Board meeting.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – The total tax revenue for 2022 is $58.2 million and is at 101% of the total revised budget amount.
	Grants – In December, the Library received $30,000 in grant revenue. Of this amount, $20,000 was from the St. Louis County Library Foundation for the 2022 contribution to the Abigail Harris Endowment. This endowment is reserved for Library employee engagement and was developed years ago with a donation from a patron. The remaining $10,000 was from the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) for a technology mini grant to purchase virtual reality headsets.
Expense
	Building Operations – Snow Removal – In December, the Library District incurred a total of $49,376 in building operations – snow removal expense. Of this amount, $49,011 was paid to BSR Services, Inc. for snow and ice management and chemical application between 11/14 and 12/28.
	Technology – Equipment - In December, the Library District incurred a total of $136,217 in technology - equipment expense. Of this amount, $123,500 was paid to Dell Marketing L.P. for computers, computer mice, and keyboards.
	Capital Improvements – In December, the Library District incurred a total of $906,950 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $786,802 was paid to Interior Construction Services for the following expenses:
			$421,499 for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in November
			$365,303 for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in December
The Library Board approved of the February 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Barry).
DIRECTOR AND CEO REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, delivered the following report.
Library Update
Ms. Sorth said that this month the Dashboard includes information on the Library’s 2022 statistics.
		Library patrons had access to a total of 2,983,497 items and 954,053 unique titles following the catalog merger with St. Louis Public Library in March 2022. The circulation of physical and eMedia items totaled nearly 11 million at 10,825,732. This circulation was about 6% lower than circulation in 2021, owing in part to a longer checkout period of three weeks after March 17th, and a related shift to a maximum of three renewals per checkout. The closure of HQ during construction of the Clark Family Branch has also had an impact. Checkouts totaled 4,097,680, which were 12% higher than the total checkouts in 2021. Renewals, mentioned above, were down 23% compared to 2021 at 3,792,633.  eMedia circulation totaled 2,935,786 and has maintained a large increase from pre-pandemic numbers. When compared to 2019 eMedia totals, circulation has increased 40%.  eBooks are the most widely used type of eMedia, constituting 58% of eMedia circulation.  eAudiobooks account for 35% of circulation, eMagazines account for 4%, and eVideos make up 3%.
		DVDs, Blu-Rays, and Video Games constituted 27% of circulation.  Compared to pre-pandemic circulation in 2019, totals for 2022 are about 33% lower due to the introduction of streaming services. This is similar to what is being seen at other large public libraries.
		A total of 3,254,116 patrons visited the Library in 2022. The busiest two branches in terms of visits were the Daniel Boone Branch with 327,259 visits, and the Mid-County Branch with a total of 282,566 visits.
		She said that almost 8,000 patrons received notary services at the library.
		Employees distributed 566,850 diapers, 3,337 flow kits and over 37,000 meals.
		488 patrons used the Tap-In / Family Law center.
		750 patrons used the Library for tax assistance.
		In 2022, 445,957 patrons used a public computer in the Library and 455,691 patrons used the Library’s Wi-Fi.
		Ms. Sorth said the popularity of Wi-Fi hotspots and hotspot/Chromebook bundles demonstrates the need patrons continue to have for devices that provide access to the internet. The Library has nearly 200 Wi-Fi hotspots for checkout. At any given time, over 900 patrons are on the waiting list for a hotspot. Total hotspot circulation in 2022 was 979. There are 162 hotspot/Chromebook kits which circulated 875 times in 2022. The eighty Chromebooks without connected hotspots circulated 451 times.
		 More than 3,390 puzzles, all of which were donated circulated almost 30,000 times in 2022. 491 tabletop games were checked out or renewed 4,742 times in 2022.
		Sporting equipment, such as binoculars, disc golf kits, and fishing poles checked out 305 times. Telescopes were very popular and checked out 256 times. The Library owns 30 telescopes. The wait list for the telescopes is consistently around 400. As a result, the Library is working with the St. Louis Astronomical Society to purchase and prepare an additional 30 telescopes. The telescopes will be purchased in two phases, and will be ready for patrons by the end of 2023.
		The Library offered 12,044 programs virtually and in-person in 2022. There were 324,515 participants. This includes 32,788 registrants who participated in Summer Reading Club and 12,877 patrons who registered for Winter Reading Club. Over 36,000 patrons attended 87 author visits. Not included in these totals were 67,129 patrons who participated in passive programming - which are in-library or take-home activities prepared for patrons by our employees.
		The Training department conducted 686 training courses attended by 3,812 patrons. The trainers handled 6,505 requests for assistance through Book-a-Trainer sessions and through immediate patron assistance. There were 259 employee training sessions attended by a total of 3,137 employees.
		A total of 61,601 patrons registered for a library card in 2022. Library employees created and mailed nearly 5,000 library cards requested by new patrons via the online registration form. Over 32,000 patrons registered in person at the Library. Twenty-three school districts enrolled their students in the ConnectEd online library card program. The program gave access to over 24,000 new students in 2022.
		The Library issued 1,712 cards to St. Louis Public Library residents, and 1,389 cards were issued to residents of Jefferson County.
		Ms. Sorth said the Library prepared 259,532 items for circulation in 2022. Support Services departments encountered several challenges throughout the year. The migration to Polaris paused the ordering and cataloging of new items for about a month. The move to the Beck required employees to learn a new workflow related to the introduction of the Automated Materials Handler. The Library’s largest book and AV vendor experienced more than one outage, one of which prevented several weeks of ordering. Despite those challenges, Acquisitions, Cataloging, and Processing have kept up with work and items were prepared for circulation efficiently.  (2019-2022 Strategic Plan)
	Ms. Sorth also mentioned that on January 12, SLCL and SLPL updated from Polaris 7.0 to Polaris 7.3. The update took less than the expected time, finishing in two hours. Initially, there was an issue with the self-checks that required ITS to log into each unit and reset the print settings. Once this was resolved, ITS worked through an issue with receipt auto-cutting. Other than these two issues, the update had no negative impact. The new release included a patch that corrected search result anomalies that appeared when staff searched for titles. The next release, 7.4, will include a new adjustment to renewal calculations that is greatly anticipated by Library employees.  The team from Innovative will be visiting later this month to talk about our thoughts regarding their Vega Program product.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 3a)
	The Health Communication Research Laboratory (HCRL) made a presentation at a Regional Response Team meeting in the summer of 2022.  HCRL, which is affiliated with Washington University, shared information about the “iHeard STL Trusted Messenger” initiative which Ms. Sorth has mentioned in a previous Director’s Report. The aim of this initiative is to understand what health-related messages are being shared in our community, and to identify and respond to any inaccuracies with reliable trustworthy health and wellness information using the trusted messenger network.  The Library and HCRL had an initial meeting to talk about ways to partner, particularly involving GrandPads.  HCRL was very interested in the connection that we have with older adults through the GrandPads.  Following a series of discussions, the organizations worked together to distribute a survey to the Library’s GrandPad users that would collect information about the seniors’ interests and information about their perspectives on COVID -19.  HCRL had a vested interest in the responses to the health-related questions.  The Library was primarily interested in the respondents’ feedback on personal interests.  The data collected about personal interests will help the Library shape programming, particularly virtual programs, to better meet the needs of older adults.  This extensive survey was completed by 374 GrandPad users.  All of the respondents received a gift card provided by HCRL for completing the survey.  The data is being reviewed currently and we hope to fully delve into the findings in the days ahead. 80% of the users said they used their GrandPad every day, 82% were very satisfied with their GrandPad, and 97% of the respondents indicated they would recommend the GrandPad to others.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1)
	Working with Adult Services, Reference will be offering a suite of programs geared at former incarcerated and currently incarcerated patrons. There will be virtual and in-person sessions on the following topics: starting a business, getting a job with a record, high school equivalency, higher education and support for family members. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3b)
	In April, the Reference department will offer programs on financial literacy for small businesses. This will include credit fairs at Natural Bridge and Florissant Valley branches. At these events, patrons may have their credit reports reviewed by a credit advisor. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	The contract with Farber Specialty Vehicles for three new bookmobiles has been executed.  The order for the chassis was submitted and the early projection for completion of the three vehicles is the spring of 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, Increase Access 1c, 2a)
	The Library was invited to participate in the St. Louis Cardinals Winter Warmup event in January.  The Library was given a complimentary booth for the very popular event.  Over the three days, the Youth Services Department had 1,125 people visit their table. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 2b, 2c, 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth announced that reference held the first ever 60+ Job Seeker series. This was a four-session series where participants learned about resumes, LinkedIn, cover letters, and interviewing. Nancy Jones, Career and Leadership Coach, Lynne Kipnis, Ph.D., Clinical Psychologist, and Ellen Sherberg, Journalist, Former Publisher, St. Louis Business Journal led these four sessions with Reference. After each session, Reference held an open lab for the participants to try the resources reviewed and answer questions in the moment. The series ended with a Job Fair on Friday, January 27th that welcomed all patrons. The Job Fair was put together with assistance from Joel Reinert, Business Liaison at the Missouri Job Center at NW Crossings. There were eighteen employers available to talk with patrons about current job opportunities, such as the St. Louis Zoo, Kelly Education, and Butler’s Pantry. There were also five organizations that offer resource assistance, like MERS Goodwill, the Missouri Job Center, and St. Louis Community College. For the Job Fair, seventy patrons met with different employers and resource assistance organizations. While the job fair was geared towards patrons age 60 or older, teens that came into Thornhill after school were welcomed to get experience talking to employers and most were excited to connect with the St. Louis Zoo. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	The Library will present more than seventy programs in celebration of Women's History Month in March. Topics include women who were scientists, engineers, inventors, artists, and authors. These programs and activities will be held both virtually and in-person for audiences of all ages. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b)
	Adult Services is proud to announce that the Library’s 101st graduate has completed the Online High School program. The program, which launched in 2017, offers adult learners a second chance to earn a high school diploma. The Library will host a graduation ceremony and celebration at the J on Saturday, March 4th at 7:00 p.m. This will be the first graduation since 2019 due to COVID and likely our biggest one yet. We are expecting about 25 graduates and their families at this highly anticipated celebration, including our 100th graduate, Shilpa Deshmukh. The commencement address will be given by Dr. Beckwith. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2b, 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 3c)
	Nine St. Louis County Library branches will host special exhibits within the next year from Family Diversity Projects. These photo-text exhibits travel nationwide to help eliminate stereotypes and foster a sense of belonging. Each exhibit tells the stories of real people, including about twenty portraits plus laminated sheets with quotes and text about each person. The exhibits are The Road to Freedom: Portraits of People with Disabilities (currently displayed at Thornhill); Nothing to Hide: Mental Illness in the Family; and Building Bridges: Portraits of Immigrants & Refugees. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3c, Increase Access 1a)
	Starting the first week of February, representatives with Gateway EITC Community Coalition will provide free tax preparation for households making less than $60,000 on Saturdays at Natural Bridge. Patrons can call or visit Gateway EITC’s website to make an appointment. Gateway EITC is a new community partner that will be providing tax assistance services, along with our long-standing collaborations with AARP and CORP at other locations. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Next month, the Library will host the Partners for Native Landscaping webinar series for the third year. This year’s series will feature a keynote virtual program, “Birds, Beads, Flowers & Trees” presented by Dr. Desiree L. Narango of the Vermont Center for Ecostudies, as the first of ten webinars.  Last year the webinar series had a total attendance of over 2,000 participants, with an additional 3,400 views of the recorded sessions posted to the Library’s YouTube channel. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d
	She said the Library had a kickoff meeting with Epworth and the Children’s Services Fund to discuss the inclusion of social workers at five Library branches.  Epworth and the Library are advertising for the positions.  We have received the grant payment from the Children’s Services Fund for the total amount of the two-year program. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	On Saturday, February 4, all branches celebrated Take Your Child to the Library Day by hosting various activities such as scavenger hunts and making bookmarks. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Increase Access 1)
	Ms. Sorth announced that applications for the Sidney Johnson Internship open on March 1 and will close on March 31. Two teens will be chosen to intern this summer with the Library.  The internship program is supported by the Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 3b, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
	The Grand Glaize Branch celebrated New Year’s Eve at Noon in a fun program for kids. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month were shown  including: Simple Science at Rock Road, Life Size Candy Land at Jamestown Bluffs, Author Rachel Hawkins at Grant’s View, Amazing Alphabet at Grand Glaize, Novel Engineers at Grant’s View, Kid’s Inventors Day at Meramec Valley, Author, Brad Meltzer at the J, Bug Buddies at Sachs, Author Tracy Kidder at the Ethical Society and the 60+ Job Fair at Thornhill. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said that annually, the Library receives most of the cash from property taxes early in the year. To maximize the amount of interest received, Library Administration issues a request for investment rate quotes from several area financial institutions. The financial institution that submits the highest yield for the total portfolio of investments is awarded the dollars to invest. In December 2022, the Board authorized the Library to select the financial institution that submitted the quote for the highest yield for the investment portfolio. We had four responses and First Bank was selected with the highest rate of 4.61%. (Plan: Increase Access 1)
	She announced that Jennifer Gibson was selected to join the Focus Women in Leadership Class 77 and will participate with the cohort from February - May, 2023.  In addition, Jennifer received a travel award to attend the Research Institute in Public Libraries conference in Wisconsin this summer.  The purpose of the conference is to learn practical methods for gathering, analyzing, and using data for planning, management, and communicating impact. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Several managers will be attending the Joint Conference for Librarians of Color in Florida this month.  The Library will have a booth in the exhibit hall.  Jennifer Gibson, Carla Maxwell, Andrea Johnson, and Chasidy Allen will be attending the conference.  This is the only national conference for librarians of color. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 1d, 2b, 2d, Increase Access 2b)
	Congratulations to the new class of the Staff Development Cohort. The cohort creates opportunities to help employees realize the importance of commitment and accountability by developing additional skills to support their interests at the Library. The 10-month program focuses on understanding the foundations of library operations, materials, resources, and services. Employees will learn from departments of the system and participate in experiential learning to further their personal and professional development to make greater contributions to the Library and the St. Louis region. The cohort will be attending a future Library Board Meeting.  The 2023 Cohort includes:
		Alyssa Fakes, Library Associate at Bridgeton Trails
		Chelsea Sharp, Library Associate at Lewis & Clark
		Jessica Dela Cruz, Library Associate at Natural Bridge
		Lana Delf, Library Associate in Acquisitions
		Lucas Cusi, Library Associate at Meramec Valley
		Sable Harp, Library Associate at Jamestown Bluffs
		Matthew Griffon, Service Desk Technician II in ITS
		TC Parsons, Library Associate in Bookmobiles and Mobile Services (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 2d)
	The Library had a table for recruitment at the Job Search After 60 (60+ Job Fair) at the Thornhill Branch on January 27. Many interested patrons visited the Library table and a few applicants applied for open positions. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth said this year, the Library is embarking on an organization-wide diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging assessment led by Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH), a consulting firm that specializes in this work.  One of the most important elements in this project is the voice and perspectives of employees.  This information will be collected in a variety of ways including 1) small group interviews, 2) an all-employee survey, and 3) focus groups, all of which will be anonymous and facilitated by Hicks-Carter-Hicks. HCH is also reviewing our HR policies and personnel manuals.  The Library Board will also participate in the focus group process.  I will provide updates to the Library Board on the progress throughout the year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 3b)
	Ms. Sorth reported that Library employees, working directly with the public, often encounter challenging situations and incidents that they must navigate using their training and skills while applying the Library’s policies and procedures. These situations are often stressful and require much time and energy on the part of managers, public safety specialists, and other frontline employees. Employees may encounter threats or acts of violence, substance abuse, inappropriate computer use, medical emergencies, and unattended children to name a few. Each situation requires individual assessment and application of policy and procedure, and these actions and decisions are typically made under duress. Our employees perform admirably under these challenging circumstances and they act decisively in the interest of public and employee safety. Administration is extremely appreciative of these efforts by our employees to make the patrons’ library visits safer and more enjoyable.  These issues are not isolated to the St. Louis region.  Most public libraries are experiencing an increase in these situations.  A Public Library Safety and Security Summit will be held in Ohio in April.  I will attend along with Eric Button, Steve Hunter and Dan Lucas.  Here is the event description:
Preserving an “access for all” service philosophy in an unprecedented environment of security threats has become one of the greatest challenges library directors have ever faced. How can public libraries provide physically and emotionally safer and more secure environments for patrons and staff while protecting their privacy and maintaining open, equitable, and welcoming spaces?  Library Journal invites library directors, safety and facilities heads and other stakeholders in library safety to join peers from major North American library systems to learn about best practices from within and outside the library field. We’ll explore and workshop effective approaches and real-life examples, as well as address legal, technical, policy, staffing, and training challenges. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, Increase Access 1c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	She said that extended below-zero temperatures in the area during the holiday break led to several facility issues all of which happened when the branches were closed for the holiday. Lewis & Clark, as a result of a downed power line, was without power for 18 hours. Boilers at Prairie Commons and Grand Glaize branches each needed to be reset on multiple occasions.  The Sachs Branch fared the worst. A broken fire sprinkler line delivered several hundred gallons of water throughout the entrance lobby, staff room, and public areas on December 24 in the evening.  Sprinkler systems are equipped with a flow alarm to alert authorities that the fire system is activated. Security camera footage shows fire department personnel arriving on site eight and a half minutes after the pipe broke at 5:45 p.m. Water flow was stopped about ten minutes after it started. Dan Lucas was the first Library employee to get to the site, with Building Systems personnel close behind. They worked several hours to stabilize and secure the building.  The next day, December 25, six employees from Building Systems spent several hours preparing the building for re-opening. Despite the amount of water involved and damage to the carpet, drywall, and electronic cabling, their efforts allowed the branch to open after only a single day of closure to the public. Total cost for cleaning and repair is over $20,000. An insurance claim has been made. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	She reported that there was a water leak at Natural Bridge when an internal water line in a coffee vending machine failed on New Year’s Day. Luckily, the damage was limited to carpeted areas in the computer lab. The vendor will be paying for cleanup charges. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	There was a water leak at Rock Road when a water heater expansion tank failed. Damage was limited mostly to the Teen area, with some wallpaper and drywall damage. An insurance claim has been made. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The monument sign at the Beck has been relocated to ten feet from the property line. This was the final city requirement in the construction project. (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
Library Foundation
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Foundation raised $2,167,848.75 in 2022.  This included the $1 million gift from Bob Clark for naming of the new Clark Family Branch to replace the former HQ and $200,000 from the Kranzberg Arts Foundation.  There were 360 individual donors in 2022. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Foundation received a $150,000 check from Great Southern Bank for sponsorship of a new bookmobile. (Plan: Increase Access 2a)
	The Foundation received a welcome surprise from a donor who wishes to remain anonymous.  The donor was previously a Friend of the Foundation at the $500 level.  This week the donor presented a $50,000 unrestricted gift to the Foundation.
	The Foundation received the following grant awards:
		Saigh Foundation - $5,000 awarded to the Library Foundation to purchase items for Sensory Saturdays and Sensory Storytimes (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3b)
		Delta Dental - $2,500 awarded to the Library Foundation for Raise a Reader bags (Born to Read equivalent for adopted children) (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 1b)
Ms. Sorth announced the following upcoming Author Events.
February and March Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Jaer Armstead-Jones, author of “My Invisible Father,” Saturday, February 4, 2023, 1:00 p.m, Oak Bend Branch, 842 S. Holmes Ave., MO 63122.
	James Rollins, author of “The Cradle of Ice," Tuesday, February 7, 2023, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Road, Ellisville, MO 63011.
	Former St. Louis Post-Dispatch Reporter Peter Shinkle, author of “Uniting America: How FDR and Harry Stimson Brought Democrats and Republicans Together to Win World War II,” Wednesday, February 8, 2023, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Bestselling Young Adult Author Tahereh Mafi, author of “These Infinite Threads,” Thursday, February 9, 2023, 6:30 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011. In conversation with Emily Bain Murphy, Young Adult Fantasy Author.
	Bestselling Mystery Writer Elle Cosimano, author of “Finlay Donovan Jumps the Gun,” Thursday, February 9, 2023, 7:00 p.m. Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Middle Grade Author Esme Symes-Smith, author of “Sir Callie and the Champions of Helston,” Wednesday, February 15, 2023, 6:30 p.m. Grand Glaize Branch, 1010 Meramec Station Rd., Manchester, MO 63021. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Bestselling Thriller Writer Steve Berry, author of “The Last Kingdom: A Cotton Malone Thriller,” Monday, February 20, 2023, 7:00 p.m., Ethical Society of Saint Louis, 9001 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, MO 63117.
	Amy Poeppel, author of “The Sweet Spot,” Thursday, February 23, 2023, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123. In conversation with St. Louis-based Novelist Julie Pennell.
	Best Selling Middle Grade Author, James Ponti, author of “City of the Dead: City Spies #4,” Sunday, February 12, 2023, 2:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011. In Conversation with George Jreije, author of “Shad Hadid and the Alchemist of Alexandria.”
	Middle Grade author Adam Rubin, “Human Kaboom” - Wednesday, March 1, 6:30 p.m. - Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.
	Bestselling mystery author C.J. Box, “Storm Watch: A Joe Pickett Novel” - Friday, March 3, 7:00 p.m. - Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.
	Meghan O’Rourke, author of “Invisible Kingdom: Reimagining Chronic Illness” -  Monday, March 6, 7:00 p.m. - The J’s Staenberg Family Complex, Mirowitz Performing Arts Center, 2 Millstone Campus Drive, St. Louis, MO, 63146. Presented by the Arthur Gale Medical Arts Lecture Series
	Saket Soni, author of “The Great Escape: A True Story of Forced Labor and Immigrant Dreams in America” - Tuesday, March 14, 7:00 p.m. - The J’s Staenberg Family Complex, Mirowitz Performing Arts Center, 2 Millstone Campus Drive, St. Louis, MO, 63146. Presented by the Westfall Politics & History Series
	Dr. Farzon Nahvi, author of “Code Grey: Death, Life, and Uncertainty in the ER” - Tuesday, March 14, 7:00 p.m. - The J’s Staenberg Family Complex, Mirowitz Performing Arts Center, 2 Millstone Campus Drive, St. Louis, MO, 63146. Presented by the Arthur Gale Medical Arts Lecture Series
	Novelist Elizabeth Berg, author of “Earth’s the Right Place for Love” - Thursday, March 23, 7:00 p.m. - Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	St. Louis-based Young Adult author Samantha Markum, author of “You Wouldn’t Dare”- Tuesday, March 28, 6:30 p.m. - Grand Glaize Branch, 1010 Meramec Station Rd., Manchester, MO 63021. Doors open at 6:00 p.m.
	Novelist Sarah Penner, author of “The London Seance Society” - Wednesday, March 29, 7:00 p.m. - Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
2023 Black History Celebration – Programs and Author Events: (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3c)
Ms. Sorth said that the Communications Department has created several marketing pieces for the Library’s Black History Celebration, including a brochure with hand-drawn illustrations, flyers, social media graphics, eBlasts and digital displays. Paid advertising in the St. Louis American, the Post-Dispatch, St. Louis Public Radio and Facebook have also been secured for the month of February.
	Otis Moss III, author of “Dancing in the Darkness: Spiritual Lessons for Surviving in Turbulent Times,” 7 p.m., Monday, January 30 - Florissant Valley Branch, 195 N. New Florissant Road. This Black History Celebration Kick-Off speaker is renowned spiritual and civil rights leader and Senior Pastor at Chicago’s Trinity United Church of Christ.
	De’Shawn Charles Winslow, author of “Decent People,” 7 p.m., Wednesday, February 1, Natural Bridge Branch, 7606 Natural Bridge Rd. St. Louis, MO  63121.
	Prominent broadcaster Alvin Hall, author of “Driving the Green Book: A Road Trip Through the Living History of Black Resistance,” February 13 - SLCL Authors @ the Jewish Community Center, Mirowitz Performing Arts Center, 2 Millstone Campus Drive, St. Louis, MO 63146.
	2023 Frankie Freeman Inspirational Address
Carlotta Walls LaNier, author of “A Mighty Long Way: My Journey to Justice at Little Rock Central High School,” 7 p.m., Friday, February 17, Ethical Society of St. Louis, 9001 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, MO 63117.
Dr. Will Ross will receive the Frankie Freeman Inspirational Award during the program. Dr. Ross is Associate Dean of Diversity at Washington University, Alumni Endowed Professor of Medicine, Nephrology and Principal Officer for Community Partnerships. He is founder of the Saturday Neighborhood Health Clinic, a free service for those in underserved areas.
	Bobby Bostic, author of “Time: Endless Moments in Prison,” 7 p.m., February 27, Florissant Valley Branch Rd., 195 N. New Florissant.  In Conversation with Pulitzer Prize-winning St. Louis Post-Dispatch columnist Tony Messenger.
	Friday, February 10, 7:00 p.m. – Florissant Valley Branch. Set the Night to Music.  It’s back and better than ever! Enjoy the soulful sounds of The Black and White Band featuring Songbird. All ages.
	Wednesday, February 22, 7:00 p.m. Virtual Program: Performance Poetry. Local poet and word artist, Pacia Anderson, will explore Black historical roots of performance poetry. Teens and adults. Registration required.
	Saturday, February 25, 1:00-3:00 p.m. – Florissant Valley Branch.  Gift of Gospel.  Enjoy the hand-clapping, inspirational and joyful gospel music of Shadrach Robinson, Mia Gully Calicutt and the Rest Outreach Ministry Youth. Pastor Shaun Williams will serve as the emcee. All ages.
Deborah Patterson asked about the Joint Conference for Librarians of Color and what made it distinct from other conferences. Jennifer Gibson explained that the conference focuses on how it can serve people of color better. Ms. Patterson also asked about how we know when to get more Hotspots because the waiting list is too long. Ms. Sorth responded that we are attempting to get more through grants.  She said the booking collection will assist with this as well.  They are currently seeking more opportunities to expand hotspots.
Dr. Beckwith said he was pleased with the richness of the programming of the Black History Celebration. He said he noticed that some programs were held in multiple locations and he was happy with that idea. He said he was pleasantly surprised about the virtual programming on the Little Rock Nine and he is looking forward to hearing Carlotta Walls LaNeir.
OLD BUSINESS
REVISIONS TO THE PENSION PLAN
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following.
The St. Louis County Library Employees’ Pension Plan was established in 1967 and has been restated four times since then with the last restatement taking place in 2015.  The plan has also been amended several times over the years, most recently in 2019 with the addition of the Rule of 80.  In addition, the Actuarial Assumptions have been revised frequently over the years to keep up with best practices.  However, the formula used to calculate the earned benefit for an employee upon retirement has not changed since 1984, almost 40 years ago.
As discussed at the November Library Board Meeting, the Library Administration and the Pension Board are interested in updating the Employees’ Pension Plan to provide a more contemporary and better benefit for eligible Library employees.   After reviewing current best practices with legal counsel, Library Administration asked the Library’s Actuary, Milliman, to review several scenarios that would significantly improve this benefit for eligible Library employees upon retirement.
Milliman prepared a report which was reviewed at the October Pension Board Meeting as an information item.
Library Administration recommended that the benefit multiplier be changed from 1.6% to 1.8% to be effective January 1, 2023.  This was approved by the Pension Board on November 14, 2022.  On November 21, 2022, the Library Board gave contingent approval of the change. The Library Board also approved the submission of the proposed amendment and actuarial cost statement to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER is required to notify the public on all Pension Plans with substantial changes by posting on their website for 45 days. Milliman, the Library’s actuary, submitted the information to JCPER on December 15, 2022 and the waiting period concluded on January 28, 2023.
The Library Board gave final approval of increasing the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 1.8%, effective January 1, 2023, as a permanent change to the Library District’s Pension Plan (Patterson/Barry).
NEW BUSINESS
STRATEGIC PLAN ACTIVITY HIGHLIGHTS
Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Initiatives, presented a PowerPoint for Strategic Plans.   This is the first year of the new plan which includes an updated infographic.
The Board approved the 2023-2026 St. Louis County Library Strategic Plan at the November 2022 Board Meeting. The Library has identified many activities to pursue in 2023 to carry out the goals of this new plan. Ideas for activities were developed after receiving input from members of the community as well as Library employees during the strategic planning process.
In this presentation, the Board previewed some of the 2023 activities in support of the Plan.  Ms. Gibson gave numerous examples of the various programs the Library will be offering and participating in.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, presented. He showed pictures indicating the outside Beck sign had been moved to satisfy the Frontenac requirement.
He said that the Clark Family Branch now has a building pad. Mr. Hunter anticipates that steel will be received in March.
NEW METRO SHELTER AT ROCK ROAD BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, reported the following.
In June 2022, the Library Board approved a license agreement with Metro (Bi-State) related to the construction of a new bus shelter at the Rock Road Branch. At that time, Metro presented the location with the shelter behind the monument sign, which was noted in an attachment to the executed agreement.
Metro recently contacted Administration with a request for an updated location. They have a concern that the proposed location would make it difficult for drivers and riders to see each other as the bus approaches. Administration has agreed with the new location closer to the road (image of comparative locations attached).
Although the proposed new location will partially obstruct the monument sign as eastbound drivers approach, Administration continues to support the addition of a Metro stop at the Rock Road Branch.
Lashly Baer recommends execution of a replacement license agreement (attached) referencing the new location.
The Library Board approved the revised license agreement with Metro related to the construction of a new bus shelter at the Rock Road Branch and authorize the Director and CEO to execute the agreement (Barry/Sanditz).
AUTOMATED MATERIALS HANDLING, CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
Deputy Director Eric Button, presented the following report.
Administration is seeking approval for the purchase of an Automated Materials Handler (AMH) to be installed at the Clark Family Branch.  The AMH will be used by patrons as the primary means to return materials.  The AMH will be very similar to the installations at Daniel Boone and Grant’s View branches.  The Clark Family Branch is expected to match or exceed the circulation at these two busy branch locations.  The equipment will improve efficiency and allow employees to provide other forms of direct customer service and offer programs and outreach to the community.
SLCL installed its first AMH equipment at the Daniel Boone Branch in 2011.  In July 2014, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued to prepare for another AMH installation at the Grant’s View Branch.  The objective of that RFP was to identify the best vendor for an AMH solution for the Grant’s View location and establish this vendor as the preferred vendor for future AMH installations at the Library.  At the September 22, 2014 Board of Trustees meeting, the Board approved the selection of Lyngsoe Systems to provide the AMH at Grant’s View and other future installations at SLCL.  This recommendation was based on the superior design and performance of the product, and the fact that their future pricing for projects as needed reflected the lowest line item cost among the responders to the RFP.  In addition to the AMH systems that were installed at Daniel Boone and Grant’s View branches, a 22-bin system was also installed by Lyngsoe Systems at the Lynn Beckwith Jr. Administrative Building to check in and sort new material and to sort material that is in-transit between branch locations.
In keeping with this direction, Library Administration requested a proposal from Lyngsoe Systems for a 7-Bin Automated Materials Handler for the Clark Family Branch.  The pricing received from Lyngsoe Systems for equipment and installation falls within the expected range.  The proposed AMH includes three Library Mate return stations and a manual book drop that automatically unlocks when the automated system is offline.  In addition to the equipment and installation costs, Lyngsoe Systems was asked to provide the annual maintenance costs for years 2-5 and years 6-10.  These costs are also in line with earlier pricing.  The pricing information is shown in the table below.
			Vendor
			Initial Cost
			Support and Maintenance Years 2-5
			Support and Maintenance Years 6-10
			Ten Year Total Cost of Ownership
			Lyngsoe Systems
			$217,375
			$52,295
			$74,694
			$344,365
The Lyngsoe Systems proposal was reviewed and evaluated by a team composed of Steve Hunter, Kelli Reeves, and Eric Button.
The Library Board approved authorizing the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with Lyngsoe Systems for the purchase and installation of an automated materials handling system at the Clark Family Branch at a total cost of $217,375.  This expense is included in the overall project budget for the Clark Family Branch (Patterson/Sanditz).
MEETING ROOM POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button, presented the following report.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Meeting Room Policy.  There is one significant change to the policy, which results from a new type of request from patrons.  Since the COVID-19 pandemic, many more people are conducting work, school, and other personal business using virtual means such as Zoom.  Library employees often receive requests from patrons to reserve a space to take an online test, conduct a virtual job interview, and other similar tasks.  It is important for patrons to be able to have a reserved space for these purposes.  Study rooms cannot be reserved in advance, and per the current policy meeting rooms are not currently available to be reserved for individual use.  The proposed change in the Meeting Room Policy would permit individuals to reserve a meeting room space up to seven (7) days in advance.  Under the proposed policy, all other meeting room restrictions would apply to individuals using the room.
A redlined and clean copy of the proposed Meeting Room Policy has been provided.  The policy was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved administration’s recommendations for the proposed revisions to the Meeting Room Policy (Patterson/Barry).
COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button, presented the following report.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Collection Development Policy.  The only significant change pertains to the submission and consideration of Materials Reconsideration Forms.  As book challenges become more common in libraries across the country, it is important to ensure that our collection reflects and is influenced by patrons living in our community.  The Materials Reconsideration Form is the primary method through which community members may challenge the inclusion or placement of materials within the Library’s collection.  Under the current policy, a Materials Reconsideration Form may be submitted by anyone from anywhere.  The proposed revision limits this to individuals who are St. Louis County Library District residents, those who own property in the Library District, or those who have a St. Louis County Library card and reside in another area within the St. Louis Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA).
The policy was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for proposed revisions to the Collection Development Policy (Patterson/Sanditz).
ADJOURNMENT AND EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to adjourn open meeting for Executive Session and to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).  Dr. Beckwith called for a roll call vote to adjourn regular meeting and procede with executive session.  All voted affirmatively. (Aye - Barry, Patterson, Sanditz and Beckwith.) Meeting adjourned at 4:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
________________                                                    _______________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                  Date