{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CL9Q3K65355E",
  "date": "2023-05-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, May 15, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, May 15, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
Dr. Beckwith announced that Vice-President Johnny Wang had an excused absence.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Attorney Matt , Lashly Baer, Lucy Wortham, St. Louis Public Library and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHER ATTENDING:
Emma Figueroa, Gina Sheridan, Terence McCoy, Hannah Axt, Ross Brand, Connie Dee, Melissa Bauer, Anna Schurk, Jennifer McBride, Nicole Clawson, Rachel Dippel, Adeline Chow, Nina Johnston, Alaina Culbertson, Lindsey Piech, Darien Jones, Carrie Robb, Laura Kasak, Amy Hanaway, Anne Arthur, Kat Van Arsdale, Stacy Berger, Megan Phifer-Davis, Hillary Peppers Deanna Davis, Emily Althoff, Mary Arnhart, Miriam Whatley, Stephanie Nordmann, Crystal Harris and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the April 17, 2023 minutes (Barry/Sanditz).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following report.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – The total tax revenue for 2023 is $58.6 million which is 97% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	E-Rate Discounts – In April, the Library received $83,869 in E-rate rebates for fiscal year 2022. These rebates help to cover the cost of the Library’s branch Wi-Fi, fiber internet, and Wide Area Network (WAN) from Charter Communications.
Expense
	Pension Fund – In April, the Library District incurred a total of $2,999,769 in pension fund expense. This amount was related to the Library’s annual contribution to the Employee Pension Fund. This contribution was approved by the Pension Board and Library Board in April.
	Collection Maintenance Software – In April, the Library District incurred a total of $178,745 in collection maintenance software expense. Of this amount, $163,735 was paid to Innovative Interfaces Inc. for access to Polaris, the District’s integrated library system and the mobile app.
	Capital Improvements – In April, the Library District incurred a total of $1,392,715 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,269,909 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in March and $91,288 was paid to the Lamar Johnson Collaborative for services performed at the Clark Family Branch for February-April.
The Library Board approved of the May 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Barry).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for May.  Circulation totaled 874,077 in April, 2023. This is an increase of 9.5% over total circulation in April, 2022. Several branches are seeing significant increases in circulation including Mid-County at 64%, Oak Bend at 50% and Thornhill at 22%. It has been a full year since the Library switched to a 21-day checkout period. This means that April circulation from 2023 and 2022 match in terms of checkout period and renewals.  The waitlist for Wi-Fi hotspots continues to decrease due to the addition of 100 new devices. Currently, 413 patrons are waiting for a hotspot. The Dashboard features a heatmap illustrating hotspot checkouts according to the address of patrons who have received the devices. The highest number of hotspot checkouts are in the 63136 zip code area, which includes Jennings and Spanish Lake. This data spans from March 2022 to May 3, 2023. The Lewis & Clark and Natural Bridge branches lead in hotspot checkouts by a considerable margin.  The Dashboard also reflects Library visits in April, 2023 with an increase of 6% compared to this time last year for a total of 290,319 visits.  The Lewis & Clark Branch saw a 68% increase in visits over April 2022. Mid-County and Oak Bend saw an increase of 64 and 65% respectively. Patrons from Headquarters have been using both locations since the closure.  The Dashboard also includes statistics on programing, computer usage and the top circulating titles in April.    (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1c)
	She said all five social worker positions have been either filled or an offer has been extended to candidates.  The social worker at Florissant Valley has already started providing services.  She had two clients that she assisted on the first day without any significant marketing of the service.  All of the social workers are expected to start at Epworth for training and orientation by the end of May.  It is anticipated that all five locations will be able to provide services to the public in early June.  Eric and I worked with Epworth on the selection of the social workers and continue to work with both Epworth and the Children’s Services Fund on the grant process.  A robust marketing plan will be launched to correspond with the start of services by the social workers. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a and 3c; Increase Access 1c, 2b and 2c)
	The Library will partner with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank on a grant-funded Potty Training program for families.  The grant received by the Diaper Bank provides potty training kits with resources and information that parents and caregivers need to successfully potty train their children.  The program will be presented at several Library locations starting in September.  The objectives of the program are to help families save money by ending their diaper dependency and to take pressure off of the Diaper Bank’s supply of larger size diapers.  This is a pilot project and one that is completely unique to the St. Louis area.  While there are many trainings offered for expectant parents, there are no such classes to assist with potty training. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d; Sense of Community 3a, 3b, and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said the partnership between the Library and Aging Ahead will continue to grow as we prepare to launch a virtual senior center program using the GrandPads that will provide home-delivered, nutritious meals to seniors who participate.  The live virtual programs will be presented through the GrandPad twice per week.  All current GrandPad users at SLCL are being surveyed in May to gauge their interest in participating in the program.  Interested and eligible seniors will be able to retain their GrandPads without any interruption to service while the program is being developed.  GrandPad has agreed to fund a portion of this extended service, and our partner Aging Ahead will also utilize some of its grant funding to cover the subscription costs during the interim period.  The programs will launch in October and continue through at least September 2024.  Current GrandPad users that do not wish to participate in the program, or those who are ineligible, will be informed that their GrandPads will end service on June 20, 2023.  These GrandPads will then be due back to the Library by July 31.  Current users who do not wish to participate in the virtual senior center program have the option of purchasing their GrandPad at a significantly discounted rate.  It is anticipated that as many as 1,000 current GrandPad users will be enrolled in the virtual senior center program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b and 3d; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth announced that reference librarian Hillary Peppers competed against five libraries on May 4th in a small business competition. The competition was to fund library topics that focus on local equity issues and/or marginalized populations in the small business world. Hillary’s pitch, titled Pitch Perfect: Empowering Encore Entrepreneurs, focused on assisting retired individuals with launching their businesses as there are no other organizations in St. Louis that focus on this demographic. Hillary swept her competition and took home the first place prize of $4,000. This money will help fund the Encore Entrepreneurs program in February of 2024. With the $4,000 prize, the Library will also receive free peer mentoring to help develop the program. The other library pitches included:
		West Bloomfield Township Public Library (MI) “Community Business Works”
		Central Library of Rochester & Monroe County (NY) “The Accidental Cannabis Czar: Helping Patrons Navigate the Legal Cannabis Industry”
		Baltimore County Public Library (MD) “Clean Start: Supporting the Reentry Community”
		Las Vegas-Clark County Library District (NV) “Teen Tycoons” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c; Sense of Community 1a,1b, and 2d; Increase Access 2c)
A video presentation of Pitch Perfect for older adults was explained. Hillary Peppers spoke with the Board about how she put this together. She explained the process.
	Reference has attended several job fair specific events such as St. Louis Agency on Training and Employment (SLATE) and Associated General Contractors of Missouri (AGCMO) to promote their resources including SkillMill. The AGCMO are now active promoters of the SkillMill resource to their community. After both job fairs, there has been an increase in SkillMill registrations. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3b and 3c; Sense of Community 2b, 2c, and 2d)
	The application for the Small Business Launchpad program launched on May 1st. The Small Business Launchpad is a 6-month program that will assist justice involved individuals with idealizing and starting a business. The group will meet twice a month to work with strategic small business partners in the community and learn how to use the library’s resources on different aspects of small business. Topics include mindset, barriers and fears, drafting a business plan, basic financials, and marketing. Reference is working on concluding the event with a final pitch, where the participants of the program will pitch their business to potential funders. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b and 3c; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, and 3b)
	In June, Reference is holding another job series program for older adults. Lowering the age from 60 to 55 to better align with other organizations, the 55+ Job Series will be held the first two weeks of June and end with a job fair at the Florissant Valley branch. In January, the Library hosted seventeen employers and five resource assistance organizations at Thornhill. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a and 3c; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said that National Library Outreach day falls within National Library Week. Numerous activities took place across each service structure during the entire week.  The Bookmobiles and Mobile Services Department was awarded an Allison Grant in the amount of $1500 to celebrate the week with their patrons.  Library employees interacted with 1,865 patrons with activities on National Library Outreach Day. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	The Bookmobiles and Mobile Services Department is now a demonstration location for the Wolfner Library which is a free library service for Missourians of all ages who are unable to read standard print materials due to visual impairment, blindness, physical disability or reading disability, either temporary or permanent.  Wolfner has supplied the department with a player to demonstrate to individuals with low vision or physical limitations the free player device one could receive from Wolfner. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Sense of Community 1b, 2c, 3a, 3b, 3b)
	Volunteers from AARP, CORP, and Gateway EITC provided free in-person tax assistance at five branches this year, helping over 1,600 patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a and 3c)
	The Library had a booth at the St. Louis Earth Day Festival for the first time. Employees from Adult Services and the Green Team spoke with over 950 people about library services and programming on April 22 and 23. (Plan: Sense of Community 2a, 2b, 2c and 2d)
	On April 15, 115 people stopped by the Community Autism Expo at the Parkview Branch to learn about services and resources available for individuals with autism and their families. Attendees had the opportunity to visit with a dozen local organizations in one convenient location. Parkview Library Associate Adam Rosen established the first successful Community Autism Expo in 2018. The event was hosted in-person in 2018 and 2019, and then virtually in 2022. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said this summer, Adult Services has planned a series of outdoor jazz concerts in the Reading Garden at the Sachs Branch in partnership with the HEAL Center for the Arts. On the last Thursday of each month, June through September, patrons will enjoy the musical stylings of Ryan Marquez, Foster and the Fellowship, Harvey Lockhart and the Collective, and J Brew and the Crew. The concerts begin at 7:00 pm and patrons are encouraged to bring their lawn chairs and refreshments. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d; Sense of Community 3a; Increase Access 1b)
	She said two teens will participate in the Sidney Johnson Internship program starting the week of June 5th and continuing through the end of July.  This internship is made possible with support from the Norman J Stupp Foundation at Commerce Bank.  The interns are:
		Yashika Raja - Currently a Junior at Pattonville High School. Yashika is interested in pursuing her bachelor's in public health and then going to med school while also getting a degree in political science or human relations. Her dream school is Washington University. She has volunteered for Book Buddies, STL Food Bank and teaches a foreign language. She is also on the student committee that meets with the Board of Education.
		Eli Ferguson - Currently a Sophomore at Marquette. Eli is a member of Tri-M Music Honors Society and Vice-Chairman of the school's Model UN.  He volunteers at the Weikem Soccer Camp for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing and at SLCL for Summer Reading Club. He plans to go to college and then grad school hopefully somewhere on the coast. His interests are language arts, foreign language and math.
		(Plan: Promote Literacy 3a; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, and 3b)
	Throughout the month of June, all Library branches will be hosting programs dedicated to the celebration of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender pride. (Plan: Sense of Community Literacy 1b and 3b)
	The Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including Crochet for a Cause at Thornhill, Live Action Coding at Cliff Cave, the Community Autism Expo at Parkview, Baby Art Crawl at Oakbend, Full STEAM Ahead at Weber Road,
Author David Grann // Ethical Society of STL, National Library Outreach Day at Brown Elementary, Pet Party at Meramec Valley, Pete the Cat Party at Jamestown Bluffs, Author Katherine Applegate at Grant’s View and Paddington Bear Party at Florissant Valley. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said that this year, the Library is embarking on an organization-wide diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging assessment led by Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH), a consulting firm that specializes in this work.  One of the most important elements in this project is the voice and perspectives of employees.  An all-employee survey assessing the culture of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging at SLCL was launched on Monday, May 1. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 3b)
	Ms. Sorth said that in 2021, the Library embarked on a much more involved and transparent financial reporting process by creating a Comprehensive Financial Report.  For the third year in a row our work has been acknowledged!  We are again receiving the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting. The GFOA established the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting Program in 1945 to encourage and assist state and local governments to go beyond the minimum requirements of generally accepted accounting principles to prepare comprehensive annual financial reports that evidence the spirit of transparency and full disclosure and then to recognize individual governments that succeed in achieving that goal. The Certificate of Achievement is the highest form of recognition in governmental accounting and financial reporting.  Congratulations to CFO, Laura Taylor and the Finance Department. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Library Associate Earl Green from Bookmobile and Mobile Services recently won the Early Literacy Champion Award presented by Turn the Page STL. Year after year, Earl Green does a wonderful job of delivering hundreds of books to over 90 schools and over 500 classrooms in the St. Louis area via the Preschool Outreach Program at the St. Louis County Library. Seventy of the schools served are located in low-income areas. Each day Earl loads up the library van to deliver the books. He builds a wonderful connection with the teachers at each school and he maintains the collection so that the students have bags of new and inviting books to read. Earl maintained delivery service all throughout the pandemic. In 2022, Earl was able to add all of his schools back to the POP schedule even though many of them suspended service during the pandemic. The Library was informed that thirty-eight phenomenal professionals were nominated and a committee of fourteen event organizers chose him. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2b; Sense of Community 2a; Increase Access 2c)
	She also reported that County Executive, Dr. Sam Page, hosted a press conference at the Florissant Valley Branch to celebrate the work of the Tap In Center which received a What’s Right With the Region Award and a Leadership Award from North County Inc.  The Tap In Center is a unique collaborative project to provide free legal assistance and connect justice-involved individuals with local support services at the Florissant Valley Branch and the Lewis & Clark Branch.  The Center offers an approachable environment for clients with warrants and other legal issues to quickly get back in good standing with the courts without fear of arrest or paying a fine. Justice-involved individuals often face many barriers when accessing the courts such as lack of transportation, legal fees, and conflicts with taking time off work and child care schedules to appear. The Tap In Center seeks to mitigate these barriers. Since the Tap In Center started in September 2020, they have served 780 individuals and facilitated 593 bench warrant recalls at the felony, misdemeanor, and ordinance violation levels. Over 85% of participants who had a warrant recalled have not returned to jail during this two-year period. The Tap In Center is directly keeping people out of pre-trial detention and providing relief for families and communities, particularly communities of color, and injecting much-needed humanity into the justice system. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth attended the first ever Library Director's Roundtable hosted by the Urban Libraries Council in New York City.  There were fifty library directors from large public libraries in the US and Canada attending such as LA Public Library, Seattle Public, Washington, DC Public, Toronto Public and Denver Public to name a few.  Waller McGuire from St. Louis Public Library and John Herron from Kansas City Public Library were also representing Missouri. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	On April 27, Ms. SorthI presented at the 2023 STL Tech Week. I was a panelist on the Pathways to Digital Equity panel along with Ben Kesler, Executive Director, NPower; CeAira Sargent, Managing Director, PCs for People; and Kevin Stanley, Director of Technology, Unity Foundation. The panel was moderated by Kieran Blanks, CEO, and Founder, The Blankslate Group. I spoke about our efforts to bridge the digital divide through community partnerships and programs such as Grandpads, hotspot and Chromebook lending, and free Wi-Fi in all SLCL branches. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	The new Drupal 9 website for the Library and the Foundation is expected to be live by the end of June. The Communications Department is working on preparing all of the content to migrate to the new site. (Plan: Increase Access 1d)
	Communications is embarking a new video series called, “A Day in the Life” that features different jobs within the Library featuring several of our amazing employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d; Increase Access 2b, 2c and 2d)
	During the month of May, the Employee Engagement Committee is challenging Library employees to sleep. Employees are encouraged to track the nights when they sleep at least seven hours. Sleep deprivation can increase negative emotions, slow your cognitive abilities, and negatively impact your body’s functions. Employees who turn in a raffle entry at the end of the month will be entered to win either a cozy blanket, a memory foam pillow, or a sunrise alarm clock. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	In honor of this year’s National Library Workers Day, the Employee Engagement Committee distributed gifts to all employees. The gifts included tote bags, color-changing cups, and drink koozies, all printed with the SLCL logo. This year, the Committee thought about the items supporting grocery trips, camping or outdoor activities. This is the third year that EEC has provided gifts to employees for National Library Workers Day. The Library Foundation funds all engagement gifts and activities. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	The Green Team met to create a mission statement and core responsibilities. The established mission statement is “to reduce and to better manage local impact on the St. Louis County Library’s workplace environment through advocacy, practice, and stewardship.” Their core responsibilities are to research green ideas, environmentalism, and sustainability initiatives for the workplace. Membership responsibilities include participating in at least one litter pick-up per year. In addition to the Adopt-A-Highway (S. Lindbergh, in front of Clark Family Branch), the Team will be hosting two Community Cleanup Days at Cliff Cave and Prairie Commons. The Team would also like to promote better recycling practices and maintain the pollinator garden at Natural Bridge. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c; Increase Access 1b)
	The Secretary of State's proposed rule regarding public libraries is moving forward and has been published in the Missouri Register as required.  This proposed rule was made public in November 2022.  It then went through a comment period from November 15 to December 15 where it received 20,000 comments from Missourians including a statement opposing the Rule that was approved by the Library Board of Trustees.  In February, the rule was slightly revised to its current form.  The rule goes into effect May 30, 2023 with libraries having to submit their policies by July 31.  The Library is currently working with legal counsel to review the requirements of the new rule and are in discussion with the other larger library districts about the plan forward.  State Aid for public libraries, at the fully requested amount of $4.5 million, was restored by the Senate and the dollars were included in the final budget for the State of Missouri.  There has been quite a bit of media attention regarding this topic.  Ms. Sorth said she has been asked to comment on several occasions including on Donnybrook. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	A disintegrating sewer line at Prairie Commons has been repaired. The branch was closed for a day on Friday April 28 while work was completed. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Eric Button, Steve Hunter, and Dan Lucas attended Library Journal’s Public Library Safety Summit at the Columbus (OH) Metropolitan Library in April. Sessions included discussions and workshops on Leading through Trauma, Alternate Security Staffing Models, and Debriefing After a Traumatic Event. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The building signage at Parkview has been updated. The monument sign is in production and will be installed soon. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
 Library Foundation
	The annual Give STL Day took place on Wednesday, May 10.  This is a 24-hour day of giving where hundreds of nonprofit organizations participate and donors give to their favorite nonprofits.  This year, the Foundation raised $8,383. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
	The Foundation will host a donor appreciation breakfast at Grant’s View on May 24 at 7:30 a.m.  Author, Brooke Kroeger will discuss her book, "Undaunted: How Women Changed American Journalism.”  The breakfast was a successful annual event for many years prior to the pandemic.  The Foundation has not hosted a donor appreciation breakfast since 2019. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation will host a gala on August 26th, the first since 2019. The night will feature entertainment, a unique dining experience, exciting raffles, a live auction and other ways for attendees to make an impact.  The theme is The Gatsby Extravaganza! (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
Author Events
Recent attendance at author events has been very high. In the last six weeks over 2,500 people have attended library author events.
Upcoming Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Dr. Sandeep Jauhar, “My Father’s Brain: Life in the Shadows of Alzheimer’s” - Arthur Gale Medical Arts Lecture Series – May 16 at 7:00 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	TICKETED EVENT - Romance writing duo Christina Lauren, “The True Love Experiment” - May 20 at 7:00 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	Brooke Kroeger, “Undaunted: How Women Changed American Journalism” - Westfall Politics and History Series – May 23 at 7:00 pm - Grant’s View Branch.
	Jo Nesbo - In Conversation with Mystery Writer Lori Rader-Day – June 1 at 7:00 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	Kay Redfield Jamison, “Fires in the Dark: Healing the Unquiet Mind” - Arthur Gale Medical Arts Lecture Series –June 6 at 7:00 pm - JCC of St. Louis.
	Megan Abbott - “Beware the Woman” – June 8 at 7:00 pm - Grant’s View Branch.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
Megan Phifer-Davis, Reference Manager, presented on SkillMill and Virtual Reality (VR) .
SkilledMill is a skilled trades training resource. Through Skill Mill, students can use headsets for simulated instruction or visual guides through video tutorials.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, displayed visuals of the progress at the Clark Family Branch.  Slides of the raised steel and the retention pond were shown.   He said the second floor concrete is to be poured next with wall framing and roof decking to follow.
USE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT AT MID-COUNTY BRANCH
Steve Hunter, assistant director of Operations, presented the following.
As reported to the Board, for several years the City of Clayton has been talking with Administration about a small “pocket park” they intend to build just east of, and adjacent to, the Mid-County Branch. The park and the Branch will share a property line.
The park has now been funded with private donations, a grant from the St. Louis County Municipal Park Commission, and funds designated by the City of Clayton. Construction is anticipated to be completed this summer. A Use and Maintenance Agreement between the City and the Library has been reviewed by Lashly & Baer. The agreement states that the City will be responsible for installing and maintaining all landscaping along the property line
Administration recommends the Library Board approve the Use and Maintenance Agreement for the new park adjacent to the Mid-County Branch and authorize the Director and CEO to execute the agreement. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
BOILER REPLACEMENT AT BRIDGETON TRAILS BRANCH
Steve Hunter, assistant director of Operations, presented the following.
On April 17, 2023, Library Administration published an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for Boiler Replacement at the Bridgeton Trails Branch. The IFB was directly emailed to fourteen local mechanical companies, posted on the Library’s website, and advertised in the St. Louis Post Dispatch. At least two online bid services reposted the IFB for their members. Responses were due May 5, 2023. Two firms responded:
			Company
			Cost
			Integrated Facility Services (IFS)
			$90,780
			American Boiler & Mechanical
			$115,800
Administration and Building Systems thoroughly reviewed the proposals and agree that Integrated Facility Services has provided the lowest and best response to the IFB.
This work is included in the approved 2023 Library budget for the amount of $120,000.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Integrated Facility Services to provide the Boiler Replacement at the Bridgeton Trails Branch for $90,780 and that it authorize the Director and CEO to execute a contract to that effect.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sanditz/Patterson).
HVAC EQUIPMENT UPGRADE / REPLACEMENT AT JAMESTOWN BLUFFS BRANCH
Steve Hunter, assistant director of Operations, presented the following.
On April 17, 2023, Library Administration published an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for a complete HVAC Upgrade at the Jamestown Bluffs Branch. The work involves replacing both boilers, both air handlers, both condensers, and the miscellaneous work to connect and control the system.
The IFB was emailed to fourteen local mechanical companies, posted on the Library’s website, and advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Responses were due May 5, 2023. Two firms responded:
			Company
			Cost
			Integrated Facility Services (IFS)
			$225,495
			American Boiler & Mechanical
			$236,939
During evaluation of the responses, the Selection Committee noticed that IFS made a note of using the existing line sets as part of their solution. The Scope of Work in the IFB specifically called out new line sets. Due to this decision by IFS, it was determined that American Boiler & Mechanical provided the lowest and best response to the IFB.
This work is included in the approved 2023 Library budget for the amount of $250,000.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select American Boiler and Mechanical to provide the HVAC Upgrade at the Jamestown Bluffs Branch for $236,939 and that it authorize the Director and CEO to execute a contract to that effect.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Sanditz).
NEW SERVICE DESK AT GRANT’S VIEW BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following.
The main service desk at the Grant’s View Branch is not well-suited to the daily operating demands of the branch. Much of the surface of the desk rests at an angle, leaving little flat space for placing materials. Carts don’t fit well in the workspace, and the overall desk height is uncomfortable for staff and patrons. The 2022 budget included $65,000 for replacing the service desk with a more standard design.
Administration made several attempts to find a contractor for the work. Separate Invitations for Bid (IFBs) were issued on November 8 – which was sent to eleven general contractors – and December 1 – which was sent to 23 casework companies. Both IFBs were advertised in the Post-Dispatch and posted on the Library’s website. Neither IFB received a single response.
The amount budgeted was continued into the approved 2023 Library budget.
Administration asked ICS, the builder of Eureka Hills, the Beck, and the Clark Family Branch to provide a price for the work. ICS reviewed the drawings and on-site conditions and have priced the replacement desk work at $95,000.
Considering the lack of response the prior IFBs generated and the Library’s strong relationship with ICS, Administration believes the price provided by ICS is the best option to complete the replacement of the service desk.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select ICS to provide a new main service desk at the Grant’s View Branch for a cost of $95,000.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Sanditz).
PEOPLE COUNTERS
Eric Button, Deputy Director, reported the following.
One of the key statistics tracked by all public libraries is the number of library visitors.  At St. Louis County Library, this data is currently collected each day from the security gates that have an integrated people counter.  These statistics are manually compiled through staff entry each day.  The current people counters offer very limited reporting or analysis of library visit trends and patterns.
In response to these factors, Library Administration conducted research into the people counting products currently available.  Following this research, which included contacting several large library systems, Administration concluded that the TrafSys Spectrum 3D people counter was the best solution.  This device offered great flexibility for placement, accurate tracking, and a fully automated, cloud-based collection and reporting tool.  The device will allow the Library to conduct a detailed analysis of library usage comparing specific days or even hours of the day.
The TrafSys Spectrum 3D people counter was available through multiple cooperative purchasing agreements.  The Board’s Policy I Procurement Procedures states that the Library District may make purchases directly from federal, state, county, or other cooperative purchasing agreements.  The lowest unit cost was offered through SHI International Corporation.  A proposal for 23 total units was provided by SHI.  Eighteen of the 20 Library locations will receive one device.  Daniel Boone will have two, while Clark Family Branch will have three total devices.  The total cost included the device purchase price, mounting hardware, remote calibration, and an annual subscription to the Visicount analytics software.  The total cost for 23 units is $25,368.16.
Library Administration recommends that the Board authorize the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with SHI International Corporation for the purchase and calibration of 23 Spectrum 3D people counters at a total cost of $25,368.16. This expense was included in the Technology Budget for 2023.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
RECRUITING EFFORTS
Jennifer Gibson, assistant director of Strategic Initiatives, presented the following informational report.
The Library Board has requested yearly information regarding the employee complement at the St. Louis County Library. We have attached 12 reports for 2022 and 2023 which include the following:
	A report entitled “Summary Comparison Percentage Chart.” This report combines the statistics from the “Summary” report and reflects five years of data. It also includes FTE information for the same time frame.
	A report entitled “List of Job titles by Dept/Branch.” This is a report that is generated from our HR/Payroll software. The “ethnicity” column contains descriptions designated in our software. The report is divided by department and branch. The departments are listed in alphabetical order beginning after Administration. The branches are next and they are also listed in alphabetical order. Within each branch or department, employees are listed by their title only. Employees were sorted in descending order from the employee with the highest pay grade to the lowest pay grade. Individuals with the same title have the same pay grade.
	A one-page summary of the above report entitled “Summary” that is also generated from our HR/Payroll system. This report lists the total number of employees as well as percentages. Several of the departments are grouped together by organizational unit in this report.
	A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race.” This document lists each title, the total number of employees with that title, and then breaks down the percentage of that title by race. The titles are sorted in descending order from the title with the highest pay grade to the title with the lowest pay grade.
	A report entitled “Staff Complement by Title Listing Race and Gender.” This report is identical to the report mentioned above with gender information added as well.
	A report entitled “St. Louis County Library - List of New Hires By Location.” This report includes information about the candidates selected for all positions that were posted in this time frame. The report lists the hires by department or branch. The report indicates if a branch or department had no vacancies during the time frame.
The information contained in these reports has also been graphically represented for the Library Board’s review.
Here are several overall observations:
	The total diversity rate (employees of color) is 26.3%, a slight increase from 26% in 2022.
	The overall diversity levels for SLCL and its managers and staff are the highest they have ever been.
	The diversity rate of Assistant Managers is 34.29%. This is equal to the diversity rate of the SLCL service area.
	There are six branches and four departments with a diversity rate equal to or exceeding the 34% estimate for St. Louis County. Those branches and departments are Bridgeton Trails, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Parkview, Rock Road, Administration, HQ Custodians, Training, and Transportation.
	Eight branches have a staff complement with a diversity rate equal to or exceeding that of the branch service area. Those branches are Bridgeton Trails, Cliff Cave, Clark Family, Daniel Boone, Eureka Hills, Grant’s View, Meramec Valley, and Sachs.
The St. Louis County Library’s 2023-2026 Strategic Plan includes the following area of focus and corresponding action item:
We seek to understand the needs of our community and provide opportunities to connect and enrich the lives of our patrons. This is accomplished by recruiting and retaining library employees who represent the communities we serve.
Our continued efforts to focus on the diversity of Library employees was also highlighted in the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Assessment Report conducted by consultants Hicks-Carter-Hicks in late November of 2021 when presenting on information gathered from the Community Conversations project. These efforts to recruit and retain a diverse workforce remain at the forefront of our mission to support the community. Hicks-Carter-Hicks is currently conducting research to assess the current state of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging at St. Louis County Library from an internal perspective.
Following the presentation, Deborah Patterson asked about job opportunities that would be opening up. Discussion ensued. She also asked about recruiting efforts. Ms. Sorth said that Tarza Tawfig is engaging in various career fairs in the region with a focus on recruiting for positions at the Library.
ADJOURNMENT
Deborah Patterson made a motion to adjourn the meeting.  It was seconded by Joan Barry.  All voted affirmatively.  The meeting adjourned at 4:49 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
______________________________                                    _______________
Joan Barry, Board Secretary                                                   Date