{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CL9Q5U653C80",
  "date": "2023-07-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Tuesday, July 17, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; Dr. Jessie Burns; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Darien Jones, Becky Maue, Kat Van Arsdale, Anna Schurk, Stephanie Nordmann, Adeline Chow, Megan Phifer-Davis, Alaina Culbertson, Nana Chibitty, Kim Ford, Brent Trent, Lisa Haddox, Mary Arnhart, Nicole Clawson, Sarah Brown, Will LaChance, Eric Button, Yvonne Holmes, Nina Johnston, Jennifer McBride, Emma Figueroa, Amy Hanaway, Andrea Carter, Melissa Bauer, Elizabeth Watts, Annie Fuller, Natalia Catlett and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the June 20, 2023 minutes (Wang/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Guidelines for Public Comments
Library patron Angel Holmes spoke with the Board about a recent incident involving her child. She said no Board member had reached out to her and she wanted to be sure they were aware of the situation. She also asked if there were protocols in place to assure that the situation doesn’t happen again.  Dr. Beckwith replied that the Board notified shortly after the time that it occurred.  He said she could expect a reply by mail in the near future regarding the Library’s position.
Dr. Jessie Burns was the second speaker. He said he is so proud of the library system. He commended the Board and staff for all they do.
Dr. Burns stated that he has gone from library to library and has found that young people are disruptive. Kids are without supervision in many of the branches. Dr. Beckwith confirmed his mailing address and said a reply would be mailed to him.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2023 is $59.2 million which is 99% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	State Grants - In June, the Library District received $13,814 in state grants. Of this amount, $10,000 was received from the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) for a technology mini-grant to purchase virtual reality headsets and $3,814 was received from the LSTA for the summer reading club.
	Miscellaneous Income - In June, the Library District received $37,637 in miscellaneous income. Of this amount, $20,412 was received from the MO Office of Broadband Development for the Library’s assistance with digital equity efforts and $15,100 was received from Enterprise for the sale of one of the Library’s vehicles.
Expense
	Technology - Maintenance Agreements - In June, the Library District incurred a total of $81,766 in technology - maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $78,435 was paid to Interpersonal Frequency for one year of website support and web hosting. The Library’s updated website went live on Thursday, June 29th.
	Capital Improvements – In June, the Library District incurred a total of $1,520,502 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,489,074 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in May.
The Library Board approved of the July 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Barry).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, reported the following.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for June.  Circulation totaled 969,267 in June, 2023. This is an increase of 4% over total circulation in June, 2022.  The Dashboard includes two circulation charts.  The chart on the top left details total circulation, eMedia circulation, and physical circulation from June 2020 through June 2023 and shows a positive trend for all types of circulation. The second chart is a monthly chart that shows the past twelve months of circulation by type of material. This shows a sharp summer increase in the circulation of physical materials.  The dashboard also highlights circulation for Sporting and Wellness Equipment. The Library’s pickle ball kits are very popular. The 28 kits have circulated 48 times in less than a month. There are 88 patrons currently waiting to check out a kit.  Statistics on programming, visits, new patrons and services delivered to patrons are also included.  Deborah Patterson inquired of the cost of a pickleball kit.  Deputy Director Eric Button responded that the cost is approximately 80 dollars per kit.(Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1c)
	She said that Eric Button, Gib Van Cleve, Stephanie Nordmann and Amy Gibbons met with representatives from Innovative Interfaces (III) to review concerns about the stability and user experience on the Express Check self-check stations.  This meeting was part of an ongoing discussion to improve the overall performance of the equipment.  III identified a different networking configuration that has proven to be more stable at a neighboring library system.  The Library is looking into testing a similar setup to improve the stability of the equipment.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a; Sense of Community 3a)
	The Library has been acting as a development partner for several new Vega products offered through Innovative Interfaces (III).  As a development partner, we have the unique opportunity to guide and influence the development and functionality of these products.  The product receiving the most attention at this time is Vega Program.  This product is designed to manage meeting room bookings and event listings and registration.  III has been making significant progress on the development of this product to better meet the needs of the Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a; Sense of Community 3a)
	She said that credit card readers, previously approved by the Library Board at the April, 2023 Board Meeting, were installed last week on all of the scanning and faxing stations located at the branches.  This addition will make the service more convenient for patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c, Increase Access)
	Ms. Sorth reported that the impact of social workers at five branches has been profound.  Employees have expressed great appreciation for the support.  The social workers have been so busy engaging with clients that they need to be intentional about setting aside time for reporting, training, and communicating with one another.  The need in our community is great, and the social workers are an incredible resource.  More than 110 Book A Social Worker forms have been received by the team.  They have now formally documented and provided services in some form to more than 150 people at branches all over St. Louis County not just at their assigned location.  The amount of informal engagement with patrons is much greater than this number. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, and 3c; Increase Access 1c)
	She said that the GrandPad program directly associated with the Library, ended on June 20, and the contract for the remaining devices shifted to our partner, Aging Ahead.  Aging Ahead is still contacting prospective participants for the virtual CHOICE program that will be offered to 1,000 GrandPad users several times per week through the device.  The program will also feature free meal delivery to the participants’ homes on the days of the programs.  GrandPad users who are not enrolled into the virtual CHOICE program have been provided with instructions to return their GrandPad devices by July 31, 2023.  In the final survey issued by the Library to GrandPad users the following results were seen:
		91% of users reported that the GrandPad made them feel more connected
		86% of users said it improved the overall quality of their life
		82% indicated an increase in their confidence with technology
		82% of users reported that they intended to increase their use of technology as a result of using the GrandPad
	In addition to these impressive outcomes, many users also utilized the GrandPad to check out digital collections and attend virtual programs at SLCL.  The comments from GrandPad users expressed extreme gratitude for the opportunity and many people indicated it was a life-changing experience for them. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b; Sense of Community 3a)
	As mentioned previously, the Library has been in discussions with the St. Louis County Department of Public Health about the possibility of having Narcan kits available for distribution at several of our branches.  It was the Library’s desire to wait until the social workers were in place before the distribution began.  Since the social worker program is now underway, distribution of the kits will begin on July 17th with a soft launch.  For the pilot, we plan to have 20 kits available at each of the five branches with social workers – Florissant Valley, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Rock Road and Weber Road.  Employees will only distribute the kits, along with educational information and materials, to patrons requesting the kits.  Library employees will not administer Narcan.  We also plan to work with St. Louis County on a promotional campaign to inform the public that these kits are available at certain branches. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, and 3c; Increase Access 1c)
	She said the Small Business Launchpad application closed on Friday, June 30th. The program had 52 applicants. Twelve spots for the program were filled from the applicant pool through a selection process.  Funds for Chromebooks were provided by the Missouri Library Association’s Access & Innovation Fund to help bridge the digital divide for participants. This 6-month program will be held at Natural Bridge twice a month, starting on August 9th. In addition to hearing about Library resources, the participants will hear from Dan Lauer of Lindenwood University, Bobby Bostic, Great Southern Bank, SCORE, Grow with Google, and Legal Services of Eastern Missouri. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c, 3d; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The second Job Fair for those 55+ was held at Florissant Valley on Wednesday, June 14th. A total of 124 hopeful job seekers were able to meet with twenty local employers and nine organizations that offer assistance. Employers mentioned this was the best job fair they’ve attended in over two years and one employer was conducting on the spot interviews. Reference will host a third 55+ Job Series and Job Fair in September. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3d; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2d, 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said she recently reconnected with an individual that she had worked with at the Nine Network during lockdown who is now working at the Special School District (SSD) as their Partnership Coordinator.  Both organizations recently met and are exploring ways to partner.  Currently, SSD is providing Youth Services with expertise on terminology to use with our sensory programming. At the end of August, a team from SSD and a team from SLCL will be meeting to discuss further ideas. This includes but is not limited to ideas to expand sensory programming, partnering on Skill Mill and the possibility of bringing programming to their students. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	Jackie Hamilton and Ms. Sorth attended a grant award ceremony at the Optimist Club where Ms. Sorth met the Executive Director of the non-profit, Swim On, who was also a grant recipient.  Members of the Youth Services Department recently met with Swim On to discuss partnership ideas. Swim On was established in 2019 to raise awareness about drowning and ways to prevent it. Branches will be provided with brochures for their community information areas for patron pickup to raise awareness about drowning as well as wallet sized cards with CPR Drowning Instructions. Swim On Foundation will be presenting a virtual program this fall that will focus on awareness, statistics and prevention. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3a, 3c; Increase Access 2c)
	Tricia Rodgers, the Library’s contact at the St. Louis Justice Center, recently shared some updated viewership stats for the virtual programs that are provided on tablets. Every incarcerated person is issued a tablet upon arrival. There are over 160 programs downloaded on the tablets. Between January-June 2023, they reported almost 58,000 views for Library programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3d; Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said over ninety people attended a performance by The Drew Project during the Kranzberg Jazz Jam at Lewis & Clark.  We hope for an even bigger crowd in August, with the legendary Marsha Hines-Evan. In addition to a performance by some of St. Louis’ finest jazz musicians, the program is also an opportunity for attendees to bring their own instruments and participate. The community really values the Kranzberg Jazz Jam and Library employees enjoy hosting such a fun, celebratory event every month at Lewis & Clark.  I have shared the statistics with Ken and Nancy Kranzberg and they are thrilled. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a)
	She said the Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures were shown from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Juneteenth Celebration at Lewis & Clark, Drummer Timothy Fletcher at The J, Author Aisha Harris at the Ethical Society, Author Ruth Ware at the Ethical Society, Story Time at Prairie Commons, Community Garden Photos at Prairie Commons, Eye Thrive Visit at Lewis & Clark, Ms. Libby's Music Party at Cliff Cave, Mini Comics Workshop at Florissant Valley, and Bluey and Me at Daniel Boone.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	This year, the Library is embarking on an organization-wide diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging assessment led by Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH), a consulting firm that specializes in this work.  During the month of July, HCH is conducting six employee focus groups to explore themes that emerged from the all-employee survey conducted in May. The focus groups are the final research task in the project. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b and 1c)
	Ms. Sorth asked Jennifer McBride to talk about the new Drupal 9 website that launched on the evening of June 28. Ms. McBride reported on the website and credited Jennifer Messmer with doing a great part of the work. There are a few lingering issues with events and search that are being addressed.  A large amount of content for the History & Genealogy Department is still being added to the site. Next, work will begin on the Foundation website, which is expected to launch in late July or August.  The updated website looks fantastic.  This was a tremendous amount of work for the Communications Department. Ms. Sorth congratulated the department on a successful launch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1d, 2c)
	Ms. Sorth said that the Communications Department has created a colorful brochure for the 50th Anniversary of Hip Hop Celebration in partnership with the St. Louis Art Museum starting in September. There will be a robust marketing campaign publicizing the events and programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d; Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b; Increase Access 1b)
	The Secretary of State's proposed rule regarding public libraries is moving forward and has been published in the Missouri Register as required.  This proposed rule was made public in November 2022.  It then went through a comment period from November 15 to December 15 where it received 20,000 comments from Missourians including a statement opposing the Rule that was approved by the Library Board of Trustees.  In February, the rule was slightly revised to its current form.  The rule went into effect May 30, 2023 with libraries having to submit their policies by July 31.  The Library Board will review the new policies later in the meeting with changes to be effective immediately upon Board approval.  (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library’s actuary, Milliman, has created an individualized Pension Statement for all vested full-time employees that presents the estimated monthly pension for each employee upon retirement.  These statements will be distributed to employees, along with information about the Pension Plan and the Library’s 457 Deferred Compensation program, which allows employees to defer a portion of their earnings each pay period into an account for their retirement. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	The MacArthur Foundation is investing in a pilot to test ways to influence local safety narratives using digital platforms and messaging. The pilot will involve an ad campaign in St. Louis County.  Because of the Library’s work with the justice-involved, including the Tap In Center, of which MacArthur is the funder, the Library was asked to consider being a part of the pilot.  More information will be forthcoming.  (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
	Ms. Sorth was asked to be a guest on PNC Bank’s podcast, C-Speak, the Language of Executives.  The podcast is hosted by KMOX's newly retired Carol Daniel, and Mike Skully, Regional Vice President of PNC. These podcasts feature local and regional C-level executives talking about relevant and timely business topics. This knowledge-sharing platform provides insights on forward-thinking business approaches that disrupt the status quo and encourage business leaders to think differently.  Her interview will air in August. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth made the following statements about her silver anniversary with the Library. “I could not have asked for a better place than the St. Louis County Library to have worked for the last 25 years.  I could not have dreamed of having such amazing colleagues.  I feel so much gratitude for the employees of the Library, the Library Board and the Foundation Board every day but especially over the last month as I celebrated my rock in the garden at the Beck as well as my 25th anniversary with the Library.  I have watched all of you support the St. Louis region with a fierceness that is inspiring.”
Library Construction and Facility Update
	She reported that summer weather affected branch availability over the last few weeks. Storms resulted in power outages at Natural Bridge and Parkview on July 1st. Natural Bridge had electricity the next day but power was not restored at Parkview until late on July 3.  In addition, wind blew several pieces of roof coping off at the Beck the weekend of July 1-2. The coping pin wheeled across the roof and punctured the roof membrane in several places. Repairs to the roof were completed July 3. The only interior damage included a few damp ceiling tiles that need to be replaced. The storm on July 12 caused a power outage at Grant’s View resulting in an early closing. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation will host a gala on August 26th, the first since 2019. It will be held at The Reverie in Chesterfield. The night will feature entertainment, a unique dining experience, exciting raffles, a live auction and other ways for attendees to make an impact.  The theme is The Gatsby Extravaganza! (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
Author Events
The Upcoming Author Events were shared. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Aomawa Shields, Monday, July 17, Astrobiologist, “Life on Other Planets: A Memoir of Finding My Place in the Universe” - Presented in partnership with the Saint Louis Science Center in the Science Center’s Omnimax Theater
	Katherine Center, Tuesday, July 18, popular novelist, “Hello Stranger” - SLCL Authors @ the J - Mirowitz Performing Arts Center
	Laura Lippman, author of “Prom Mom,” Tuesday, August 1, 7:00 p.m., SLCL Authors @ the J, 2 Millstone Campus Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146.
	Susan Casey, author of “The Underworld: Journeys to the Depths of the Ocean,” Wednesday, August 2, 7:00 p.m. Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Billy Busch, author of “Family Reins: The Extraordinary Rise and Epic Fall of an American Dynasty,” Friday, August 4, 7:00 p.m., SLCL Authors @ the J, 2 Millstone Campus Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146.
	John David Mann, author of “Blind Fear,” Wednesday, August 9, 7:00 p.m.,
	Daniel Boone Branch, 300 Clarkson Rd., Ellisville, MO 63011.  In Conversation with Kent Sanders, St. Louis author and host of the Daily Writer podcast.
	Jennifer Chiaverini, author of “Canary Girls,” Thursday, August 10, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Catriona Ward, author of “Looking Glass Sound,” Monday, August 14, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
	Michael Finkel, author of “The Art Thief: A True Story of Love, Crime and a Dangerous Obsession,” Tuesday, August 15, 7:00 p.m.  Presented in partnership with the Saint Louis Art Museum’s Member Book Club.  Saint Louis Art Museum - Ferrell Auditorium, One Fine Arts Drive, St. Louis MO 63110.
	Madeline Martin, author of “The Keeper of Hidden Books,” Thursday, August 17, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch, 9700 Musick Rd., St. Louis, MO 63123.
A video titled “A Day in the Life of SLCL workers” was shown featuring Beck Building custodian Greg Minnis, and Natural Bridge Branch Manager Kalin Preston with Assistant Manager Devin Harris.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, reported that framing continues at the Clark Family Branch. The stairs are set and the fireplace area was shown. The water line has been installed. The building should be enclosed by the end of September.
SACHS BRANCH ARCHITECT SELECTION
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, reported the following.
On August 10, 2022, Library Administration issued a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for Architectural and Engineering Services for design and construction of a potential new branch building at the Sachs location. The RFQ was posted on our website, in the Post-Dispatch, and directly emailed to thirty-three companies, including sixteen WBE/MBE architectural firms.
Included in the RFQ’s Scope of Work was the separate development of a solution to the issue of noise transfer between floors at the Daniel Boone Branch.
Responses to the RFQ were due August 23, 2022. Seven responses were received. The Selection Procedures for Architects and Engineers are clearly defined by Missouri State Statute and described in the Library’s Purchasing Policy II for Professional Services (attached).
A selection committee consisting of Kristen Sorth, Eric Button, Steve Hunter, and Kelli Reeves individually reviewed the proposals. Based on the committee’s consolidated rankings, three firms were selected for interviews:
		Lamar Johnson Collaborative
		Arcturis
		FGM Architects
Following the interviews the committee deliberated over which team would be the best fit for the project. In accordance with Purchasing Policy II and Missouri State Statute, the following selection criteria were used:
	The specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required;
	The capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required;
	The past experience with references for comparable work;
	Insurance required such as professional liability; and
	The firm’s proximity to and familiarity with the area in which the project is located.
The committee unanimously agreed that Lamar Johnson Collaborative best met the required criteria.
The fee was then negotiated over several months and set at $766,970. This breaks down to:
		$735,550 for architecture and engineering services at Sachs
		$22,920 for design services at Daniel Boone
		$8,500 in reimbursable travel fees
The Library Board approved the selection of Lamar Johnson Collaborative to provide complete Architectural and Engineering Services for a new Sachs Branch at a negotiated fee of $766, 970 and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect (Patterson/Sanditz).
COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Deputy Director, Eric Button reported the following
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Collection Development Policy.  Changes to this policy are necessary to comply with the requirements of the Secretary of State's Administrative Rule (15 CSR 30-200.015).
The most significant change relates to the requirement to publicly communicate the decisions resulting from the review and consideration of any Materials Reconsideration Forms received each month.  The results of any Materials Reconsideration Form review will be available on the Library’s website.  The policy also notes that any item which has already been reviewed in response to a Materials Reconsideration Form will not be eligible for another review for a period of twelve (12) months.  Another significant change was the addition of a paragraph under the Selection Criteria section of the policy that better defines the recommended age levels associated with the children and teen collections.  Throughout the policy, there is an emphasis placed on the role of a parent or guardian to determine for one's own child what material is appropriate.
A redlined and clean copy of the proposed Collection Development Policy was provided.  The policy was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved the proposed revisions to the Collection Development Policy (Patterson/Wang).
MEETING ROOM POLICY
Deputy Director, Eric Button reported the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Meeting Room Policy.  There is one significant change to the policy that is necessary to comply with the requirements of the Secretary of State's Administrative Rule (15 CSR 30-200.015).  A statement was added to indicate that all community meetings must identify the appropriate age group for the meeting.  It further states that any advertising or promotion of the meeting must include the age designation.
A redlined and clean copy of the proposed Meeting Room Policy was shared with Board.  The policy was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved the proposed revisions to the Meeting Room Policy (Barry/Patterson).
LIBRARY CARDS FOR MINORS POLICY
Deputy Director, Eric Button reported the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a new policy, which addresses library cards for minors. This policy is necessary to comply with the requirements of the Secretary of State's Administrative Rule (15 CSR 30-200.015). Under the current policy, a minor of at least 12 years of age, is permitted to obtain a library card without parental permission.
The proposed policy requires permission from a parent or legal guardian in order to issue a card to any minor under the age of 18. When a parent or legal guardian grants permission for their child to obtain a library card, they are thereby permitting their child to have access to borrow any item from the Library's collection. Additionally, the parent accepts responsibility for any charges incurred on the child's library card. The proposed policy also provides parents or legal guardians the right to revoke a library card for their minor child. This proposed Library Cards for Minors Policy was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved the Library Cards for Minors Policy (Patterson/Barry).
Ted Sanditz said he wanted to review this policy in six months. Dr. Beckwith agreed.
MUNICIPAL ADVISORY SERVICES
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following.
Library Administration requested the submission of qualifications from qualified firms to provide Municipal Advisory Services to the Library District.  Lashly Baer assisted with the construction of the Request for Qualifications (RFQ).  The firm selected will assist the Library in completing a review of its outstanding debt and future capital needs. The selected financial advisor will provide additional advisory services outlined on the attached scope of services.
Proposals were sent to nine firms, including four MBE and three WBE firms. The RFQ was also posted on the Library’s website. Responses were due June 23, 2023. One firm responded:
			Company
			Cost
			Piper Sandler
			$75,000 annual fee for the first year. For years two and three, the annual fee will be mutually agreed to based on the scope and amount of work required and provided (not to exceed $75,000). Also, for any financing completed, the fee will be .2% of gross bond proceeds, with a minimum fee of $25,000 and a maximum fee of $50,000.
In accordance with the Library District’s Policy II for Professional Services, the following criteria was evaluated.
(a) the specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required;
(b) the capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time required;
(c) the past experience and record of performance of the firm;
(d) insurance required such as professional liability.
Administration thoroughly reviewed their response and Kristen Sorth and Laura Taylor interviewed Piper Sandler. Piper Sandler served as the Financial Advisor for the Library from 2012-2016 during the debt issuance and we were very pleased with their work. Other local clients include:
	St. Louis Community College
	City of Chesterfield
	Parkway C-2 School District
	City of Clayton
	Lindbergh School District
The Library Board approved the recommendation that the Library Board select Piper Sandler to provide Municipal Advisory Services and that it authorize the Director and CEO to execute a contract to that effect (Barry/Patterson).
ADJOURNMENT
The motion to adjourn the Board meeting was made by Johnny Wang and seconded by Deborah Patterson.  Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
The meeting adjourned at 4:58 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
_______________________                                                  ___________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                                          Date