{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CL9Q7J654553",
  "date": "2023-09-26T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Beckwith announced that Board Member Deborah Patterson, had an excused absence.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
Others Attending:
Nina Johnston, Emma Figueroa, Miriam Whatley, Laura Kasak, Trista Doyle, Lindsey Piech, Andrea Carter, Gina Sheridan, Naina Chibitty, Stacey Berger, Darien Jones, Melissa Bauer, Megan Phifer-Davis, Melissa Albers, Anna Schurk, Nicole Clawson, Kat Van Arsdale, Stephanie Nordmann, Adeline Chow, Hannah Axt, Brent Trout, Will LaChance, Andrew Freshwater, Kalin Preston, Sarah Brown, Jennifer Gibson, Emily Althoff, Allison Wisniewski, Michelle Hawkins, Carrie Robb, Rachel Dippel, Matt Lakin, Nora Marino, Dominique Henderson and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved August 21, 2023 Board minutes (Barry/Wang).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to speak before the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, gave the following report to the Board.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2023 is $59.6 million which is 99% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	State Grants - In August, the Library District received $33,068 in state grants. This entire amount was received from the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) as a Digital Imaging Grant for History and Genealogy.
Expense
	Building Repair-HVAC - In August, the Library District incurred a total of $75,825 in building repair-HVAC expense. Of this amount, $70,312 was paid to American Boiler & Mechanical for the following: payment of $43,750 to replace the boiler at Jamestown Bluffs; payment of $24,871 to install two boilers at Weber Road; and payment of $1,691 to repair the boiler water pipe at Grand Glaize. The Jamestown Bluffs and Weber Road contracts were approved by the Board in May and December respectively. The Grand Glaize contract did not exceed the threshold for Board approval.
	Technology - Maintenance Agreements - In August, the Library District incurred a total of $125,625 in technology - maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $99,680 was paid to Carahsoft Technology Corporation for the Google Workspace upgrade and support renewal through June 2024 and $25,671 to Comprise Technologies Inc. for the Smart Money Manager annual renewal through September 2024.
	Capital Improvements - In August, the Library District incurred a total of $1,750,348 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $1,671,352 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in July.
The Library Board approved of the September 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sanditz/Wang).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, delivered the following report.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard report for August. Circulation approached the one million mark in August with almost 974,993 items circulating for the month. This is an increase of 2% over total circulation in August, 2022.  A number of branches saw notable growth in circulation including Meramec Valley, Rock Road and Oak Bend with 10% increases over August of 2022.  eMedia circulation increased by 11% compared to this time last year.  Also, this figure is 50% higher than eMedia circulation levels in 2019.  August totals are the second largest monthly circulation count ever recorded with over 283,000 eMedia items checked out by patrons. This month, the Dashboard also includes circulation trends from 2018 – 2022, per capita rather than just raw circulation counts, as was reflected last month.  This data is for five Missouri libraries:  St. Louis County Library, St. Louis Public Library, St. Charles City-County Library, Mid-Continent Public Library (suburban Kansas City) and Kansas City Public Library.  Statistics on programming, new patrons and services delivered to patrons are also included in the Dashboard. For the new 2023 - 2024 school year, 18 schools and/or school districts have already submitted their student lists for access to library resources through the ConnectEd program. Since July, 68,156 student accounts have been processed. Nearly 10,000 of these accounts were students new to the ConnectEd program. Ted Sanditz asked about the waiting list for the Ebooks. Sarah Brown, Acquisitions Manager, answered that there is a 5 to 1 ratio wait list.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b; Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library was recently notified that Demco, the company that provides our Spaces and Events software for room bookings, event calendar, and event registration, is no longer supporting the product after August 31, 2024.  The product will no longer be available.  This came as a surprise to many in the industry and to us.  The Library’s contract with Demco was expiring early next year, but we have negotiated an extension of the product through the sunset date of August 31, 2024 at no additional cost to the Library.  We are fortunate that we have been working with Innovative Interfaces as a development partner for their product called “Vega Program.”  Vega Program is a software product that offers the same basic functionality as Demco.  We expect that a migration to Vega Program will be possible prior to August 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2b, 2c, 3c, 3d; Increase Access 1d)
	As a result of a grant received from Ameren, the Library was able to purchase an additional 54 hotspots for patrons to borrow.  These additions should significantly reduce the wait time for patrons who are on hold for these popular items.  Even with these additional units, we still have more than 500 patrons on hold.  During the processing of these new hotspots, Library employees also took the opportunity to upgrade the hardware for all of our hotspots to a newer and more reliable device.  This upgrade was available to the Library at no additional cost. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	The first of three e-Recycling drives, offered by the Library, was a tremendous success.  These drives are made possible through a partnership with PCs for People. This organization is focused on giving used technology equipment a second life by refurbishing and making them available and affordable for people who lack access.  The first drive held on September 9th at Florissant Valley resulted in 10 pallets of equipment being collected. The event actually shut down early because they did not have any room for additional items.  The second event was held on 9/16 at Grant’s View.  The final event is scheduled for 9/30 at Daniel Boone. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a; Increase Access 1a)
	She said the Library once again partnered with Eye Thrive this summer to host their Mobile Vision Clinic at several branches.  The events were all at capacity and the majority of the eye exams provided to children and teens resulted in them acquiring a free pair of eyeglasses.  On average, about 70% of all of the children screened needed glasses.  At Lewis & Clark, an astounding 90% of children required glasses, and many of these children had never had glasses before.  In total, 287 free pairs of eyeglasses were provided to children.  She said she is so pleased to continue in this partnership that directly impacts the quality of life for these children and increases their chances for success with reading and academic performance. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	She announced that St. Louis County Library will host the 44th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival from October 18-28, 2023. The Festival will include performances by nationally renowned storytellers as well as writing workshops, dance performances, puppetry, songwriting tutorials, ghost stories, folklore and more. Storytelling Festival events will take place at a variety of venues through the St. Louis region, including SLCL branch locations, the Missouri History Museum and the St. Louis Ethical Society.  The storytellers will also make 61 school visits and ten visits to senior living facilities.  The St. Louis Storytelling Festival is one of the largest free storytelling festivals in the world, and is the only celebration of its kind in the St. Louis region. For more than 40 years, most recently under the guidance of the University of Missouri Extension, the St. Louis Storytelling Festival has reached diverse audiences across the region with storytelling programs designed to interpret and explore the human experience. St. Louis County Library became the new home for the Festival in 2022. Last year 8,400 people attended the festivities. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 1a)
Featured Events:
	Wednesday, October 18, 7:00 p.m.  A Folklore Celebration at Grant’s View Branch
Kick-off the St. Louis Storytelling Festival with storytellers Bobby Norfolk, Shani Womack, Joyce Slater and Angela J. Williams as they captivate with their fascinating and inspiring stories.
	Thursday, October 19, 6:30 p.m. The American Experience: A Night of Storytelling at Missouri History Museum. Nationally renowned storytellers Dovie Thomason, Jitesh Jaggi and Charlotte Blake Alston will share inspiring, thought-provoking stories.
	Friday, October 20, 7:00 p.m. Tales After Dark at Florissant Valley Branch
An evening of family-friendly spooky stories, myths and legends with nationally renowned storytellers Bil Lepp, Crom Saunders and Rev. Robert B. Jones.
	Saturday, October 21, 7:00 p.m. Stories on Stage: 2023 Storyteller Grand Showcase at the Ethical Society of St. Louis. Featured nationally renowned storytellers Charlotte Blake Alston, Crom Saunders, Dovie Thomason, Jitesh Jaggi, Rev. Robert B. Jones, Sr. and Bil Lepp will entertain with their inspiring stories. St. Louis’ favorite local storyteller, Bobby Norfolk, will serve as Master of Ceremonies.
	She said the committee working on the St. Louis Storytelling Festival (SLSF) took advantage of a unique opportunity to extend the reach of the Festival.  StoryCorps, a non-profit organization that is committed to the collection, preservation and access of personal stories, happened to be in St. Louis during the SLSF as part of their national tour.  The committee reached out to explore
connecting StoryCorp with the Festival.  As a result, the Library is hosting a recording session at Florissant Valley Branch on the opening day of the Festival, October 18.  All five of the two-hour time slots have been filled with people who are excited to share their stories and have them added to the Library of Congress’ online archive.  StoryCorps will also be in St. Louis in September and October stationed at the Media Commons near the Nine Network.  Many patrons who were unable to secure a recording slot at Florissant Valley were referred to this site.  StoryCorps has repeatedly expressed how impressed they are with the level of organization they have seen from the Library team. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, Increase Access 1a)
	One of the original five social workers resigned from her position a few weeks ago after accepting an amazing opportunity with another organization.  Interviews were conducted and a candidate has been hired to fill the vacancy at Rock Road.  Elizabeth McDermott started at Epworth today, and she will report to Rock Road for her first day there on October 9.  The social workers continue to be a valuable resource for the community.  Lead Social Worker, Katie Lappe, Director of Older Youth Services at Epworth, Deanna Allsman, and I presented an update for the Board of the Children’s Services Fund at their September Board Meeting. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	On September 7th, the Library and Congresswoman Cori Bush hosted a press conference at the Natural Bridge Branch to announce an expansion of the Congress in Your Neighborhood program that was first launched in 2021. The expansion of an additional Neighborhood Service Center at Natural Bridge Branch marks the 5th Neighborhood Service Center throughout Congresswoman Bush’s district.  The Neighborhood Service Centers allow the Congresswoman and her team to operate directly out of the communities they serve, therefore, increasing access for community members to receive assistance. “After the enormous success from the pilot program, I am proud to officially announce that our Congress in Your Neighborhood program is here to stay. Our public libraries often uniquely serve as hubs for our communities. By permanently placing our constituent services teams directly in communities we are serving, we are better positioned to help those who most need us,” said Congresswoman Bush. “It is my hope that this program can be a model for other districts around the country looking to best serve and reach their constituents.” The Library was presented with a Congressional Record for this partnership.  In addition, the Congresswoman highlighted on Twitter/X a display created by an employee at the Natural Bridge Branch. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 2d)
	St. Louis County Library hosted the annual Little Readers Festival on Saturday, September 23, 2023 from 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. at Florissant Valley.  This free event featured activities, shaved ice, free books, performances by Ms. Libby, story time with Pete the Cat and more. The Festival was recommended for families with children ages 0-5. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 3c, Increase Access 1b)
	She said the Library will be celebrating Teentober. This is a nationwide celebration hosted by libraries every October and aims to celebrate teens, promote year-round teen services and the innovative ways teen services help teens learn new skills, and fuel their passions in and outside the library. All of the branches will host programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2b, Sense of Community 3b)
	With funds from a grant provided by the Saigh Foundation, the Youth Services Department has created Sensory Bags that can be checked out for patrons to use while at the library. Each bag contains items, such as noise canceling headphones and fidgets, to help lessen sensory overload for kids and adults during visits to the library. The bags will be available at all branches within the next few weeks. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	The Library is partnering with a local organization called Orbital Test Prep to offer free ACT tutoring for high school students at Weber Road on Thursday evenings at 6:00 p.m. starting October 5 through November 17. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3, 3a, Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
	We are currently partnering with St. Louis Art Museum to provide hip hop-inspired programming at every branch as part of their exhibition “The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century.” The Library is presenting over 50 events in celebration of the anniversary. Almost 3,000 people have participated so far, with a few more events to take place before the end of September. We are especially pleased with the success of the Turntablism Workshop at FV on August 26 and the Hip Hop Block Party at FV on September 1. Over 2,000 people were in attendance for the Block Party.  Attendees of all ages enjoyed a live DJ and emcee, food trucks, a graffiti wall, a selfie station, lawn games, and the Bubble Bus. The Library partnered with the City of Florissant to host the Hip Hop Block Party in Bangert Park. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2b, 3a, 3b)
	The Library had an outreach booth at the Festival of Nations in Tower Grove Park again this year. Some of the staff helping at the booth were our Welcoming Ambassadors. Staff connected with over 2,600 people about library services and helped over 90 individuals receive new or replacement library cards. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 3b, 3c)
	In October, patrons of all ages are invited to participate in the Fall Into Fitness Challenge to earn prizes for physical activity. Participants can pick up a log from their local branch or register online to keep track of every mile walked or every 30 minutes of exercise. Prizes include gift cards to REI and Dick’s Sporting Goods. Over 1,000 patrons registered for last year’s Challenge, with over 425 completions. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth said that in partnership with St. Louis County, the Library hosted a press conference on August 31 at 10 a.m. at the Weber Road Branch for Opioid Awareness Day.  The press conference included the announcement of the Narcan Kit partnership with the St. Louis County Department of Public Health. Narcan supplies are being expanded and distributed to all 19 branches.  The Library has already distributed more than 60 kits to patrons seeking them. The St. Louis County Department of Public Health has also supplied us with a quantity of Hygiene and Wound Care kits that we are making available to the public at all of our branches.  (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, and 3c; Increase Access 1c)
	St. Louis County Library and Affinia Healthcare are partnering to offer Medicaid sign-up events at three branches this fall. Representatives from Affinia Healthcare will be available to help individuals sign up or re-enroll for Medicaid benefits on a weekly basis starting in September. Over 54,000 Missourians, including over 25,000 children, have lost healthcare coverage since the end of the public health emergency was declared in May. As states have begun the process of “unwinding” the continuous Medicaid coverage rule, it is estimated that up to 300,000 could lose coverage. The following branches will host Medicaid Sign-up Events:
		Lewis & Clark, Tuesdays 2:00-4:00 p.m.
		Natural Bridge, Mondays 10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.
		Weber Road, Fridays 12:00-2:00 p.m. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	She announced that the Library is currently hosting a Diaper Drive to benefit the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank from September 18-30th as part of diaper need awareness week. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3a)
	Patrons can now ride a shuttle from a Library branch to the Soldiers Memorial Military Museum in downtown St. Louis to explore the exhibition “Vietnam: At War and At Home” with the Museum’s Director. The shuttle will depart from three different branches in 2023 – September 20th at Grant’s View, October 18th at Prairie Commons and November 15th at Sachs. Shuttle tickets are $15 per passenger. The first shuttle leaving from Grant’s View hosted 13 patrons.  (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Scanning Kits will be available to the public. Patrons will be able to scan and preserve photos, notes, scrapbooks, and documents.  The kits contain a Chromebook and a portable Canon flatbed scanner. There is also a folder with instructions for using the scanner and resources for additional information related to organizing a personal digital archive. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d)
	For Library Card Signup Month in September, Adult Services has put together a newsletter, Beyond Books: A Daily Dive into the Library, that explores many of the things St. Louis County Library has to offer beyond its collection of books and other materials. Patrons may register to receive the newsletter, which arrives in their inboxes each weekday during the month, and discover their next favorite thing about the Library.  At last check, there are over 530 subscribers to Beyond Books.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 3d; Sense of Community 2d)
	The Small Business and Nonprofit Conference will take place on October 4th – 6th. This event will be in partnership with St. Louis Public Library for 2023 where the Conference will be at the Central Branch of SLPL on October 4th, the Florissant Valley Branch on October 5th, and held virtually on October 6th. This is the first year working with SLPL and we are excited to bring both districts together to show support in education for our entrepreneurial community. Each day will have sessions presented by library professionals and community partners. Presenters include World Trade Center of St. Louis, Legal Services of Eastern Missouri, Small Business Development Center, Women's Business Center, Enterprise Bank & Trust, Oasis, and more. Both in-person days will have Credit Fairs for patrons to have their credit reports pulled and time to speak with a credit counselor. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures were shown from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including:  Concert in the Garden at Sachs, Author Karin Slaughter at Daniel Boone, Author Dr. Jovita Oruwari at Lewis & Clark, Author Joe Posnanski at The J, A Very Open Rehearsal at Thornhill, and Mexican Folklore Dance at Florissant Valley.   (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that Library Board Member, Joan Barry, has been reappointed to the Library Board for another four years.  Ms. Sorth congratulated Ms. Barry. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Jackie Hamilton, the Library's Assistant Director of Advancement, has been named as the 2023 Outstanding Fundraising Executive by the St. Louis Regional Chapter of the Association of Fundraising Professionals. This award is designated for an individual, professional fundraiser who practices their profession in an exemplary manner. Jackie will receive this award at a breakfast event on November 14th.  Ms. Sorth congratulated Ms. Hamilton. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Jordyn Latson, one of the Library’s recent Sidney Johnson summer interns, has been hired as a Library Technician at the St. Louis Art Museum.  (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	The Library will host popular children’s author, Jan Brett, on Saturday December 9th at the Daniel Boone Branch for Jan’s Winter Holiday bus tour.  We will close the Branch at 3:30 instead of 5:00 that day to begin the preparation for the event that starts at 5:30. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Improved stability and performance of the Library’s self-checkout stations has been the Library's goal for over a year.  The Library has been in conversation with Innovative on how to accomplish this following the merger of catalogs with St. Louis Public Library.  The ITS department recently completed a major reconfiguration of the Polaris ExpressCheck software on all 80 of the District's self-checkout stations.  This change moves the computing function out of the Polaris' cloud and onto the PC itself and it has significantly increased the stability of the application, which is good news for patrons and staff. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, Increase Access 1d)
	Two Library proposals for presentations were accepted for the Public Library Association Annual Conference which will take place April 2024 in Columbus, OH.
		Addressing Social Determinants of Health through Community Wellness Hubs
Speakers: Kristen Sorth & Doneisha Bohannon from BJC.
		Older Adults Need Jobs! Empowering Seniors to Rejoin the Workforce
Speakers: Amy Hanaway, Megan Phifer-Davis, Nancy Jones, Ellen Sherberg & Dr. Lynne Kipnis. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d; Increase Access 2c)
	The Communications Department is working on a project to help re-engage patrons by sending a lapsed patron email to 10,000 cardholders who have not visited the Library since 2019. The message reflects the recent direct mail piece, which encourages people to come back and explore all the Library has to offer. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b)
	The Communications Department has created a new brochure highlighting resources for the Justice Involved.  The brochures will be available at the St. Louis County Justice Center as well as distributed to the Library’s many community partners who work with justice involved individuals. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3b, Increase Access 2b, 2c)
	Eric Button celebrated his 25th Anniversary at the Library.  Ms. Sorth said that Eric began his career in 1998 as a Reference Librarian and went on to serve in management positions at Tesson Ferry, Rock Road, and Daniel Boone before becoming the Regional Branch Coordinator in August 2003 and Regional Branch Administrator in April of 2008. He was promoted to Assistant Director, Branch Services in January of 2013. He is currently the Deputy Director, a position he’s held since 2016. Eric’s legacy can be seen in the Library’s many accomplishments. It has been such an honor to work with Eric for the past 25 years. As he mentioned during my anniversary celebration, we grew up together at the St. Louis County Library and have celebrated many personal milestones together. I’ve been so lucky to have a sideline view watching Eric excel and make his mark on the Library from starting as a Reference Librarian all the way to being the Deputy Director and all of his successful stops along the way. Eric’s impact on the Library cannot be overstated and I have learned so much from him. He is infinitely patient and I admire that quality so much. He is an excellent listener and hones in on the most important aspects of a challenge which makes him incredibly thoughtful in coming up with a solution. His analysis of a situation includes a keen focus on what will benefit the Library and the patrons the most.   He has implemented some of our most important initiatives and helped shape the renovation and replacement of all of our branches and the new Clark Family Branch. He is steadfast and loyal and kind. We have celebrated many amazing successes and weathered some challenging times together, including the pandemic. I simply do not know what I would do without Eric Button she said. She congratulated him on 25 years of doing amazing work. Ted Sanditz mentioned how the notary program was kicked off at the Library by Eric Button. He said he appreciates him. Dr. Beckwith thanked him for his promptness and for the support he gives the library district.
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The boilers at Weber Road have been replaced as planned. Work has now moved to Jamestown Bluffs, which will see an entire HVAC replacement project begin this week. Although the work will take several days, we are hopeful that moderate weather will allow us to keep the branch open throughout the duration of the work. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Administration has been approached by Schneithorst Village, the owner of the Merrill Lynch building, about the possibility of adding a driveway between our two properties. George Stock & Associates has been engaged by Schneithorst to determine the feasibility. We are open to discussing the idea and will report back to the Board if a solid plan is presented to us. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The Daniel Boone Branch has been experiencing inconsistent power delivery. This has resulted in flickering lights and unsteady power supply to data components. Ameren was on-site September 20 to review their equipment. They confirmed that everything is fine outside of the building, but suspect that there may be a loose connection in one or more of the panels inside. In the next few days an electrician will be on-site to check all connections. This will require power being cut to the branch, so a temporary closure will be necessary. The duration is expected to be in the 6-hour range. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation
	Multiple grants were awarded to the Library Foundation:
Administration was thrilled to learn that the Library was awarded $594,835 from the Emergency Connectivity Fund (ECF) to provide 1,000 Chromebooks with built-in mobile internet connectivity to District residents who lack sufficient equipment and service to access the internet. The ECF is a $7 billion program through the Federal Communications Commission that helps schools and libraries provide the tools and services their communities need to access the internet. We are accepting applications through October 1st and are completely overwhelmed by the response.  The announcement was made on Tuesday, September 19th and by Thursday morning, September 21st, there were over 10,000 applications.  Due to the response, the Library will conduct a lottery to determine who will receive the Chromebooks.  All applicants will be notified by October 6, 2023. Those individuals awarded a device will be able to pick up the Chromebook at the branch designated on their application. The Chromebooks do not need to be returned to the Library.  Recipients can keep the device to use indefinitely; however, internet access will end on June 30, 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
		Missouri Humanities awarded $5,500 to the Library Foundation in support of the 44th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 1a)
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation hosted a gala on August 26th, the first since 2019. The Great Gatsby fundraiser was a success. The Foundation raised $234,500 and hosted 225 attendees. Of that total, $166,500 was raised from 34 sponsorships.  The remaining revenue came from the auctions and the fund the need paddle raise. The event was held at The Reverie in Chesterfield. The night featured entertainment, a unique dining experience, exciting raffles, a live auction and other ways for attendees to make an impact. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
Ms. Sorth announced the following upcoming Author Events.
2023 St. Louis Teen Book Festival:
The Library will soon be announcing the line-up for the 2023 Teen Book Festival which will take place at Ladue High School. The event will include 20 nationally-renowned and local young adult authors for a day of author talks, panel discussions, book signing sessions and more dedicated to teen readers. The keynote author will be fantasy author Neal Shusterman - other featured authors include Justin A. Reynolds, Kendare Blake, Alexandra Bracken, Soman Chainani, Rachael Lippincott, and more!
	2023 Fierce Reads Book Tour presents authors Faridah Àbíké-Íyímídé ("Ace of Spades"), Jamison Shea ("I Feed Her to the Beast and the Beast is Me"), Tomi Oyemakinde ("The Changing Man"), and Kalyn Josephson ("This Dark Descent")! Wednesday, September 27, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch
	John Connolly author of The Land of Lost Things, Wednesday, September 27, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Kashmir Hill, author of “Your Face Belongs to Us,” Thursday, September 28, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., The J
	SOLD OUT - Ticketed Event -Tui Sutherland author of “Wings of Fire: A Guide to the Dragon World,” Monday, October 2, 2023, 6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m., The J.
	John Patrick Green, author of “All Tied Up,” Wednesday, October 4, 2023, 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Scott Berg, author of The Burning of the World: The Great Chicago Fire and the War for the City’s Soul,” Wednesday, October 4, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Ryan La Sala, Author of “Beholder,” Thursday, October 5, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Poets Naomi Shihab Nye and James Crews, Friday, October 6, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	Ticketed Event – Paul Holes, author of “Unmasked: My Life Solving America’s Cold Cases,” Saturday, October 7, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	Ethel Morgan Smith, author of “Path to Grace: Reimagining the Civil Rights Movement,” Wednesday, October 11, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. Grant’s View Branch.
	Ben Fountain, author of “Devil Makes Three,” Friday, October 13, 2023, 7:00 p.m.- 8:00 p.m., The J.
	Fergus Bordewich, author of “Klan War:  Ulysses S. Grant and the Battle to Save Reconstruction,” Monday, October 16, 2023, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Oct 30, 7:00 pm – The Library will host New York Times columnist and bestselling author David Brooks in partnership with Washington University. This sold out event will be hosted in Graham Chapel.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported.
Mr. Hunter reported that the exterior stone work at the Clark Family Branch is in progress. Dry wall is going up and the stage is going up in the Event Center. He showed pictures of a three-tone paver in front of the building.  Mr. Hunter also mentioned the possibility of a coffee bar at the site. He said an RFP will be issued.
2023 TAX RATES
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following.
The Library Administration has reviewed the 2023 post Board of Equalization (BOE) property value assessments.  Property values have increased over prior year in total by 14.4%. A breakdown of the assessments by category is as follows:
The Board is reminded that the 2023 tax revenue, along with the surtax on commercial property, will provide approximately 97% of the cash income needed to operate in 2024. According to State Statute, the Board must set the 2023 tax rates by October 1, 2023.  Proposed tax rates and prior year tax rates are as follows:
The above proposed tax rates are set at the ceiling and would provide approximately $63,145,000 in tax revenue for 2024.
The Library Administration recommends Board approval of the attached Resolution which states the above proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property are assessed as the 2023 tax rates. If, after validation by the Missouri State Auditor, the tax rate ceiling allowed for any or all subclasses is less than or greater than the approved rate(s) the Director is hereby authorized to set the final rate (s) for the Library as validated by the State of Missouri Auditor. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our patrons and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 and September, 2016.  The Library Board approved of the recommendation (Sanditz/Wang).
2023 BUDGET REVISION
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following.
The Budget Committee members are as follows: Kristen Sorth, Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Financial Officer; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; and Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives.
The committee has reviewed the 2023 budget revision. Account changes are explained within the Budget Revision narrative and summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures.
The Budget Committee recommends approval of the 2023 revised budget.  The Library Board approved of the recommendation (Barry/Wang).
457/DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
Laura Taylor, CFO, reported the following.
In 2013, the Library Board approved the changes to the Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan when the District moved to a new provider.  The 457 Plan is a means by which full-time employees can save for their retirement on a pre-tax or after-tax basis through payroll deduction.
During a benefit review by the new Human Resources attorney, Constangy, Brooks, Smith & Prophete, it was discovered that the option for a Roth deduction was mistakenly left out of the revised plan document.  The Roth option has been available to participants since 2011.  The Roth option simply needs to be stated in the Deferred Compensation Plan to accurately reflect the plan options.  This does not impact any current Roth accounts.  The attached Amendment was drafted in consultation with the Library’s Human Resources Legal Counsel.
The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the Amendment to add the Roth option to the 457/Deferred Compensation Plan document.  The Library Board approved the document (Wang/Sanditz).
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Mary Arnhart, Human Resources Manager, reported the following.
According to the Personnel Manual, the Library Board appoints two employees to the Grievance Committee for four-year terms.  One employee is appointed in even numbered years and the other in odd numbered years.  Terms of the Grievance Committee shall commence on October 1.
The current Board appointed employee serving on the Grievance Committee is Joan Hammann.  Her term will expire on September 30, 2023.
The Administration recommends that the Library Board reappoint Joan Hammann from Cliff Cave Branch to serve a new four-year term.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Wang).
PREGNANT WORKERS FAIRNESS ACT
Mary Arnhart, Human Resources Manager, reported the following.
The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (PWFA) was passed by Congress on December 27, 2022, and the law went into effect on June 27, 2023.  The attached policy was drafted in consultation with the Library’s Human Resources Legal Counsel, Constangy, Brooks, Smith and Prophete.   The PWFA is a new law that requires covered employers to provide “reasonable accommodations” to a worker’s known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, unless the accommodation will cause the employer an “undue hardship.”
The Library has been following the law in practice.  The policy, which was attached, will be placed officially in the Personnel Manual.
The Library Administration is recommending that the Library Board approve the addition of a Pregnant Workers Fairness Act Policy to the Library’s Employee Personnel Manual.  If approved, the policy will be added to the Library’s Employee Personnel Manual. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Sanditz).
AMEREN EASEMENT AT NATURAL BRIDGE BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations, reported the following.
Power for the new USDA testing facility by the Natural Bridge Branch will be supplied from a pole located in the back (south) part of Library property. Ameren is requesting an easement in order to facilitate their power installation. The piece of property involved is behind the branch and not used for Library purposes.
The easement agreement was attached to the recommendation. Lashly Baer has reviewed the document.
Administration recommends the Library Board approve the Utility Easement Agreement with Ameren at the Natural Bridge Branch, and authorize the Director and CEO to execute the agreement. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Barry).
NEW SHELVING END PANELS & TOP CANOPIES AT NATURAL BRIDGE BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported the following.
Most of the end panels and top canopies of the shelving units at the Natural Bridge Branch have delaminated and are in need of replacement. The 2022 budget included $300,000 for replacement of the panels and canopies throughout the entire branch.
Administration made multiple attempts to find a contractor for the manufacture and installation of the work. Separate Invitations for Bid (IFBs) were issued on November 8, 2022 – which was sent to eleven general contractors – and December 1, 2022 – which was sent to 23 casework companies. Both IFBs were advertised in the Post-Dispatch and posted on the Library’s website. Neither IFB received a single response.
The budgeted amount was continued into the approved 2023 Library budget.
Administration learned of Library Furniture International (LFI) in Wheeling, Illinois through an industry newsletter.  They were contacted and asked to consider the project. LFI reviewed the drawings and offered a price of $91,794.44 for the replacement panels and canopies delivered but not installed. Building Systems is able to perform the installation.
Pursuant to Library Policy, a sole source procurement may be completed when after solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate – which is the case here.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Library Furniture International to provide new end panels and top canopies at the Natural Bridge Branch for a cost of $91,794.44.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sanditz/Wang).
ADJOURNMENT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Joan Barry made a motion to adjourn the open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss (legal) matters (Section 610.021(1)).  Ted Sanditz seconded.  All approved with voice vote.  Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang
Meeting adjourned at 4:34 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                                        ___________                   Joan Barry, Secretary                                                                                 Date