{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "Library Board",
  "unique": "CPKLGF5627C3",
  "date": "2023-04-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, APRIL 17, 2023
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, April 17, 2023 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, Chief Finance Officer; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer, and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County.
OTHER ATTENDING:
Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Emily Althoff, Thomas Persons, Dany Nenninger, Carla Maxwell, Nicole Walsh, Kim Ford, Andrea Carter, Carrie Robb, Allison Wisniewski, Donna Spaulding, Andrea Johnson, Heather Neill, Matthew Griffon, Will LaChance, Deanna L. Davis, Brent Trout, Chris Goodman, Annie Fuller, Lisa Haddox, Nama Chibitty, Kalin Preston, Natalia Catlett, Lori Boschert, Cheri Remington, Andrew Freshwater and Sandy Williams.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Library Board approved the minutes of February 6, 2023 (Barry/Patterson).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one present requesting to speak to the Board.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Laura Taylor reported three months of financials.
 The Treasurer's Report was delivered for January, February and March 2023.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – The total tax revenue for 2023 is $50.3 million which is 84% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	Grants – In January, the Library received $3,000 in state grant revenue. Of this amount, the entire amount was for the Library Services and Technology Act’s Collaborative Summer Library Program promotional grant. This grant was used to purchase pens, bookmarks, and note pads. The items purchased will be distributed to promote Summer Reading Club.
Expense
	Collection Maintenance Software – In January, the Library District incurred a total of $11,177 in collection maintenance software expense. This entire amount was paid to Innovative Interfaces Inc. for access to INNReach through August 2023. INNReach facilitates borrowing between St. Louis County Library and MOBIUS/Prospector. These partnerships enable patrons to gain access to additional materials from other libraries.
	Custodial Services – In January, the Library District incurred a total of $19,970 in custodial services expense. This entire amount was paid to Buildingstars Operations Inc. for January cleaning services.
	Bldg. Operations – Maint. Agreements - In January, the Library District incurred a total of $13,451 in building operations – maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $12,361 was paid to Brightly for Building System’s use of Maintenance Edge. Maintenance Edge consolidates the work requests that employees submit via the Infocenter for various repairs throughout the Library District.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the January 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Sanditz/Wang).
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – The total tax revenue for 2023 is $51.5 million which is 86% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	Grants – In February, the Library received $429,000 in other grant revenue. Of this amount, the entire amount was from the St. Louis County Children’s Services Fund. The grant will be used to help fund social workers at five branches: Florissant Valley, Lewis and Clark, Natural Bridge, Rock Road, and Weber Road.
	Miscellaneous Income – In February, the Library received $70,435 in miscellaneous income. Of this amount, $70,000 was from the Missouri State Treasurer to refund a surety deposit related to a MODOT permit for the Beck Building.
Expense
	Technology – Maintenance Agreements – In February, the Library District incurred a total of $95,959 in technology – maintenance agreements expense. Of this amount, $68,641 was paid to Bibliotheca for an RFID agreement for 2023.
	Capital Improvements – In February, the Library District incurred a total of $909,294 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $777,003 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in January and $87,143 was paid to the Lamar Johnson Collaborative for January services related to the Clark Family Branch and the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the February 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Patterson).
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes – The total tax revenue for 2023 is $52.2 million which is 87% of the total budgeted amount of $60.1 million.
	Grants – In March, the Library received $3,500 in state grant revenue. The entire amount was from the Missouri Library Association (MLA). This grant will be used to purchase Chromebooks and cases for the reference department’s Small Business Incubator.
Expense
	Reading Clubs – In March, the Library District incurred a total of $90,989 in reading clubs expense. Of this amount, $55,707 was paid to Scholastic for Summer Reading Club prize books and $20,803 was paid to 4IMPRINT for Summer Reading Club prize mugs.
	Grant Expense – In March, the Library District incurred a total of $105,698 in grant expense. Of this amount, $76,559 was paid to GrandPad Inc. to renew the subscription for April and to purchase accessories. These purchases were paid for using funds from St. Louis County under the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA).
	Capital Improvements – In March, the Library District incurred a total of $747,429 in capital improvements expense. Of this amount, $620,613 was paid to Interior Construction Services for services performed at the Clark Family Branch in February, $56,241 was paid to CI Select for furniture at the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building through February, and $42,885 was paid to Lyngsoe Systems Inc. for the automated materials handling system at the Clark Family Branch.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the March 2023 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Wang).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Director and CEO Kristen Sorth reported the following. Report will include information from February, March and portions of April 2023.
Library Update
	Ms. Sorth said the Dashboard reports for March and April are attached reflecting statistics from January through March.  Total circulation from January to February is 14% lower than the same period in 2022.  However, March circulation for 2023 is 17% higher than circulation in 2022.  With the closure of HQ, the Library is seeing an increase in patron visits and circulation at Mid-County where there was a 20% increase in circulation.  Circulation of eMedia has increased over 50% from pre-pandemic levels, with a total of 269,952 eMedia checkouts in March.  Visits continue to increase with 309,539 visits in March which is 70% higher than this time last year.  This growth was accompanied by 45,072 PC sessions and 35,979 Wi-Fi sessions. The graph included in the April dashboard shows a significant jump in visits between February and March 2023. In 2023, employees distributed 132,575 diapers to patrons. Over 100 patrons utilized the Tap In Center. 7,653 COVID tests were distributed and 4,086 patrons used the Library’s notary services. The number of hotspots in the collection has doubled to 300.  In addition, all existing hotspots have been replaced with new devices. As a result, the circulating collection exclusively features the same type of hotspot. In January, there were over 1,000 patrons on the waitlist for a hotspot. Due to the addition of the new devices, the waiting list has dropped to under 600. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, and 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, and 3c, and Increase Access 1a and 1c.)
	Ms. Sorth stated that The Black History Committee, which includes Brenda West Ammons, Cindy Fehmel, C.J. Hall, Janelle Turner, Crystal Harris, Carla Maxwell, Nakisha Ford, Rebecca Clarke, Melissa Bauer and Sandy Williams planned a fantastic month of programming in February, which included both virtual and in-person programs. The branches also presented an incredible line-up of programs.  In total, more than 4,500 people attended these incredible events.  Communications did a fabulous job promoting all of the programs.  The celebration does not end in February. The Committee will celebrate the memory of children’s book Illustrator Floyd Cooper, on Friday, May 6.  Mr. Cooper illustrated more than 100 books in his lifetime.  One of his illustrated books concerning Juneteenth will be given away on Floyd Cooper Day at the Parkview Branch on May 6.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a and 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, and 3b)
	Ms. Sorth recently met with the new Director of the History Museum and discussed new ways for the Library to partner. They will be working with the History Museum to encourage residents of the region to visit the Soldiers Memorial downtown by way of a shuttle that will leave from three Library locations beginning this fall.  The Soldiers Memorial Shuttle will offer patrons round-trip transportation from Grant’s View, Prairie Commons, or Sachs to the Soldiers Memorial downtown.  A docent will provide additional information on the shuttle ride, and a guided tour of the exhibits will be provided for all participants at the Memorial. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, and 3c)
	Reference and History & Genealogy departments are planning to experiment with hybrid programming in the year ahead.  Hybrid programming would include both an in-person and a live virtual audience that could share in the same program presentation.  The hope is that programming is accessible to more patrons this way. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b and 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	She said that Blood Pressure Kits, provided in partnership with the American Heart Association (AHA), began circulating on April 10, 2023.  One hundred of these kits will be available for a three-week checkout.  The AHA believes that the kits will help many people discover problems with hypertension that they may not have been aware of prior.  The kits also will help people who need to temporarily monitor their blood pressure.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3a and 3c)
	The Library will continue to expand the library of things by adding 30 pickleball kits in late April.  The kits are offered in response to the booming popularity of pickleball as a sport for all ages.  The kits come with four paddles and indoor and outdoor balls that are housed in a carrying bag. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	The Library continues to partner with the Health Communication Research Laboratory (HCRL) out of Washington University.  HCRL regularly surveys a subgroup of nearly 175 GrandPad users to determine what interests this group has.  Based on those responses, they send a weekly email to GrandPads to alert them to opportunities in the region that match those interests.  The first such email informed the seniors of BINGO programming at the Library, ideas for preparing healthy meals, and a creative program featuring local artist and illustrator Cbabi Bayoc.  Continuing surveys will measure outcomes over the course of eight weeks. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b and 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, and 3b)
	The Library is adding a new online resource called “The Shelf.”  The Shelf offers access to a large library of streaming movies and TV shows in Spanish.
	In February & March combined, Customer Connect answered 16,750 calls which is almost 7% higher than the same period last year. Overall, calls are up 8% compared to last year. As of March 31st, Customer Connect has fielded 2,038 calls related to tax appointments and tax forms.  The top three categories of calls handled by the department for March were general Library and patron accounts at 63%, renewals & requests for material at 10%, and partnerships at 22% (AARP, Aging Ahead, Grandpads, Diapers, etc.). (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 2d and 3c)
	History and Genealogy is offering programs to celebrate National Preservation Week in April.
Programs will be offered virtually and in person at Daniel Boone, Lewis & Clark, and Oak Bend. History and Genealogy will also have scanners available for patron use at Daniel Boone on April 27th. Attendees are asked to bring their own storage method, for example a flash drive. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	The Reference Department submitted a proposal to the Entrepreneurship & Libraries Conference (ELC) 2023 Pitch Competition, which is funded by ALA-Libraries Build Business & EBSCO. The focus of the competition is how libraries can support local economic development, job hunters, workforce development, entrepreneurs, nonprofits, and/or small businesses. For 2023, the ELC is particularly interested in pitches that focus on local equity issues or marginalized populations and communities. Reference Librarian, Hillary Peppers created a presentation for an Encore Entrepreneur Series, where Reference would help entrepreneurs aged 50+ with different aspects of their business (finances, legal, industry research, market research, etc) Out of 29 entries to the ELC Pitch Competition, St. Louis County Library was chosen as one of the final five. Hillary Peppers will pitch her idea to judges on May 4th.  The winners will split a cash award from ELC. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c, and 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 2d, and 3b)
	A local book distributor warehouse learned about the Sweet Reads Bookmobile through a contact at the Epworth Center. They reached out and asked if Sweet Reads could take a donation of thirty boxes of brand new books for all ages. The Library received a vast array of new books that were used for the Sweet Reads Bookmobile collection. The collection consisted of bestselling books, books that were in Spanish with English translations, children’s books and instructional drawing books. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a and 2b, Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3a)
	She said the Library hosted a joyful graduation ceremony and celebration at The J on Saturday, March 4th at 7:00 p.m. for the graduates of the Excel Adult High School program.  Congratulations to the Adult Services Department and particularly Ricqui Brooks for organizing a wonderful event and supporting the students on their educational journey.  The program, which launched in 2017, offers adult learners a second chance to earn a high school diploma. This was the first graduation since 2019 due to COVID and our biggest one yet. Thanks to Dr. Beckwith for delivering an inspirational commencement address. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2b, 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 3c)
	The Library will offer Explore-a-Story again this year in April and May. Participants are encouraged to visit unique St. Louis County sites and discover new books in this fun family reading adventure.  If participants visit four sites, they will be entered in an electronic raffle for a chance to win a St. Louis Union Station Attractions gift card. Administration encourages tagging the library on social media to share photos. This year’s sites are: Animal Farm at Suson Park, the "Aspire" Sculpture at Chesterfield's Central Park, Columbia Bottom Conservation Area, Dr. H. Phillip Venable Memorial Park, Lone Elk Park, Old Guard Monument and Plaza at Jefferson Barracks Park, Pershall Park Mural and the Three Stacked Chairs Sculpture. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 1b and 2d)
	In March, the Library launched Picture Book Bingo, a new reading challenge for ages 0-5. Picture Book Bingo encourages families to read a picture book together each month and complete three activities inspired by the book to reach bingo. The challenges are simple, everyday activities that families can complete without any special materials. While there are no prizes for this challenge, children and families will be exposed to a diverse variety of picture books and interactive, literacy-based activities. 397 participants enrolled in the March Challenge. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, and 3d)
	Throughout the month of May, the Library will celebrate Asian American Pacific Islander Month with programs at all branches. Featured events include an event with author, Soman Chainani, who will be in conversation with Michelle Li, KSDK News Anchor and founder of the Very Asian Foundation and a Mental Health in the AAPI Community Panel Discussion with representatives from the Asian American Civic Scholars Group and Missouri Asian American Youth Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b and 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, and 3b)
	Presented by St. Louis University, the prestigious St. Louis Literary Award has honored writers for over 50 years. This year’s award winner is Neil Gaiman, celebrated advocate for libraries and prolific author for readers of all ages. To support the St. Louis Literary Award and St. Louis University, the Library hosted a number of programs in celebration of Neil Gaiman.  The Library also had a fun challenge on social media where hundreds of participants voted on their favorite Neil Gaiman book. We look forward to partnering with SLU again to celebrate next year’s winner once they are announced. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b and 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Adult Services hosted the Community Autism Expo on Saturday, April 15 at the Parkview Branch. Attendees visited with local organizations to learn about services and resources available for individuals with autism and their families. The Reference and Youth Services department also shared information about Library services. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 1b, 2d, 3b and 3c)
	The Library is hosting a variety of financial education programs during Money Smart Month in April with partners like the St. Louis Regional Financial Empowerment Coalition, Legal Services of Eastern Missouri, Commerce Bank, Small Business Administration, Institute for Financial Education, Ameren Missouri, and the United Way of Greater St. Louis. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d and 3c, Sense of Community 3a and 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said that at the beginning of the month, the Library hosted a tree giveaway in partnership with Forest ReLeaf of Missouri who are celebrating their 30th anniversary this month. To mark this occasion, Forest ReLeaf provided 30 native trees and shrubs for distribution at three branches, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark and Natural Bridge. Most of the trees were distributed to patrons and the remainder will be planted on library grounds, observing Forest ReLeaf’s commitment to support communities and their health through a more resilient tree canopy. This partnership provided opportunities to connect patrons to other efforts, such as the Partners for Native Landscaping webinar series and reference services. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a and 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Representatives from Epworth, Eric Button and Ms. Sorth have been conducting interviews for the lead social worker position and the four other social workers to be located at five library branches – Florissant Valley, Natural Bridge, Lewis & Clark, Rock Road and Weber Road.  Epworth is currently extending offers to the finalists.  The Library’s first social worker starts on April 17 and we are hopeful that the full program will begin in May.   (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	She said the Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Space Dance Party at Prairie Commons, First Paint at Cliff Cave, The Black Rep Presents "Frankie Muse Freeman" at Florissant Valley, Lap Time at Mid-County, Line Dancing from Around the World at Eureka Hills, Author Event – Dr. Farzon Nahvi, T-Rex Tea Party at Grand Glaize and Jazz Jam at Lewis & Clark were shown. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth welcomed the new class of the Staff Development Cohort. The cohort creates opportunities to help employees realize the importance of commitment and accountability by developing additional skills to support their interests at the Library. The 10-month program focuses on understanding the foundations of library operations, materials, resources, and services. Employees will learn from departments of the system and participate in experiential learning to further their personal and professional development to make greater contributions to the Library and the St. Louis region.  The 2023 Cohort was introduced by Employee Relations Coordinator Tarza Tawfiq and includes:  o Alyssa Fakes, Library Associate at Bridgeton Trails o Chelsea Sharp, Library Associate at Lewis & Clark o Jessica Dela Cruz, Library Associate at Natural Bridge o Lana Delf, Library Associate in Acquisitions o Lucas Cusi, Library Associate at Meramec Valley o Sable Harp, Library Associate at Jamestown Bluffs o Matthew Griffon, Service Desk Technician II in ITS, and TC Parsons, Library Associate in Bookmobiles and Mobile Services (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 2d)
They have already completed the following activities:
		Build telescopes for circulation with St. Louis Astronomical Society o  Assembled Born to Read bags
		Assist at Author Events
Lucas Cusi, Library Associate at MV, represented the cohorts and said they were happy to be a part of the organization.
	This year, Ms. Sorth said the Library is embarking on an organization-wide diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging assessment led by Hicks-Carter-Hicks (HCH), a consulting firm that specializes in this work.  One of the most important elements in this project is the voice and perspectives of employees.  This information will be collected in a variety of ways including 1) small group interviews, 2) an all-employee survey, and 3) focus groups, all of which will be anonymous and facilitated by Hicks-Carter-Hicks. HCH is also reviewing our HR policies and personnel manuals.  The small group interviews are complete and an all-employee survey will be distributed later this month. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 3b)
	Rebecca Clarke, Manager, Adult Services, was selected as the winner of the 2023 RUSA Award for Excellence in Reference and Adult Library Service.  This national award recognized her work on 21-Day Racial Equity and Social Justice Challenge that was presented in partnership with the YWCA.  The project was summarized by RUSA with the following:
The 21-Day Racial Equity and Social Justice Challenge is a unique approach to help expand an individual’s understanding on racial equity and social justice and encourage the habit to continuously learn through weekly articles, resources, discussions, and reflections on the Challenge topic. The first Challenge centered around “Racism is a Health Crisis” and the impacts of racism on the health of the community. In 2022, the Challenge focused on “We Can’t Wait,” the immediacy of listening, learning, and acting to address inequities in our community.”
In addition to Rebecca’s recognition for the award, the Library will also receive a $1,500 monetary award.  Congratulations to Rebecca! (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 2d, and 3a)
	The new AT&T digital phone lines that are compatible with older alarms, fax machines and security devices are being installed this month.  ITS has been working with AT&T on their installation along with Security Manager Dan Lucas to assure that elevator alarms work properly with the new service. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	ITS recently completed the deployment of new PCs and Chromebooks used in various roles across the District.  The effort included over 180 new employee PCs and 200 new Chromebooks that are used by employees and the public. The Library’s new recycler, PCs for People, received some of the computing hardware removed during the upgrade.  PCs for People will repurpose the devices and distribute the equipment to people that would not otherwise be able to afford computing equipment. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	The Communications Department is finalizing Summer Reading Club advertising which includes a transit campaign on buses and Metrolink, radio ads on Y98 and St. Louis Public Radio, print ads in the St. Louis American and GO!, as well as paid spots on Facebook and Instagram. (Plan: Increase Access 2a and 2c)
	The Library offered Public Service Managers the opportunity to apply for a seat to attend a training course called Library Supervision and Management offered by Infopeople. This company provides high-quality professional development opportunities to the library community. The six-week asynchronous course runs March 21 to May 1. Attendees will advance their knowledge of key management principles, develop practical skills needed to deal with day to day responsibilities, understand the organizational and community dynamics that impact decisions as a leader, and build confidence in one's effectiveness as a supervisor. (Plan: Sense of Community 1d)
	Dr. Beckwith said the Library is happy to announce that Kristen Sorth has been selected as a 2023 Titan 100 of Top CEO's & C - Level Executives in our region.  The award letter indicated the following, “We are very excited to inform you that your nomination and work profile has proven to warrant this prestigious accolade. You have proven to demonstrate exceptional leadership, vision, passion, and influence in your field.”  The Titan award was presented at a reception on April 6. Library Board Members, Foundation Board Members and Library Administrators were in attendance.  Dr. Beckwith also said he is happy that Kristen Sorth was selected as Director and that a search committee was not used. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Kristen Sorth said the Secretary of State's proposed rule regarding public libraries is moving forward and has been published in the Missouri Register as required.  This proposed rule was made public in November 2022.  It then went through a comment period from November 15 to December 15 where it received 20,000 comments from Missourians including a statement opposing the rule that was approved by the Library Board of Trustees.  In February, the rule was slightly revised to its current form.  The rule goes into effect May 30, 2023 with libraries having to submit their policies by July 31.  Regarding state funding, the Senate has expressed interest in restoring the funding for State Aid for public libraries that was removed by the Missouri House of Representatives.  We are very hopeful that this will happen.  The impact is much greater for small rural public libraries.  There has been quite a bit of media covering the issue of State Funding and I have been asked to comment on several occasions. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The Library received $225 from Enel-X for participating in Ameren's voluntary electrical load shedding program in 2022. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Ameren is offering an incentive of $3,837.50 for installation of the electric vehicle charger at the Beck. The charger should be installed sometime in May. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The Library received $70,000 from MoDOT to close out the Spoede Road traffic light project.
The amount matches what the Library provided to MoDOT for a security deposit in 2020. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	In June 2022, the Board approved easement agreements for the City of Chesterfield to install an extension of Main Circle Drive with sidewalks alongside the Reading Garden at Sachs. That work started March 1 and is nearing completion. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said that all Library vehicles have been updated with an official logo. Smaller vehicles have the logo placed on both front doors while larger vehicles have them placed on the box or cargo area. (Plan: Increase Access 2, 2c)
	A sewer line is deteriorating under the Prairie Commons Branch and must be replaced. Sewer odor is prevalent in various locations of the branch. The pipe can be sleeved, which prevents the need to dig through the floor and do a total replacement. The work is expected to be in the range of $25,000 and will take a day or two to complete. This repair will fall under the emergency procurement policy which says the following:
Section 7. Emergencies. This Policy may be waived by the Director in writing in emergencies involving the health, welfare or safety of individuals or where significant damage or disruption of service would occur if corrective action is not taken quickly. Emergency procurement shall be made with such competition as is practicable under the circumstances. If the emergency does not allow sufficient time for the Procurement Process set forth hereunder, a complete report of actions taken shall be presented to the Board at the next regular or special meeting. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation and Library received grant awards totaling $258,102 since February:
		$3,500 from Missouri Library Association Access & Innovation Fund provided Chromebooks and equipment for Reference’s Small Business Incubator for JusticeInvolved People.
		$49,602.00 from LSTA Digital Imaging Grant for History & Genealogy project - a microfilm scanner, a temporary PT library associate, and the creation of a searchable online platform that will hold the digitized yearbooks, city & county directories, and burial certificates
		$5,000 from the Optimist Club of St. Louis for Coding 101 Chromebooks
		o $200,000 2-year grant from the Berges Family Foundation for social workers
	The Foundation awarded six Alison Grants totaling $9,300 that were submitted by Library employees for individual branch programming ideas.  The total budget for 2023 is $15,000. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	The annual Give STL Day will take place on Wednesday, May 10.  This is a 24-hour day of giving where hundreds of nonprofit organizations participate and donors give to their favorite nonprofits. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	The Foundation will be hosting a donor appreciation breakfast at Grant’s View on May 24 at 7:30 a.m.  Author, Brooke Kroeger will discuss her book, "Undaunted: How Women Changed American Journalism.”  The breakfast was a successful annual event for many years prior to the pandemic.  The Foundation has not hosted a donor appreciation breakfast since 2019. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said that the St. Louis County Library Foundation will host a gala on August 26th, the first since 2019. The night will feature entertainment, a unique dining experience, exciting raffles, a live auction and other ways for attendees to make an impact.  The theme is The Gatsby Extravaganza! (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Author Events
To date in 2023, The Library has hosted 36 authors and 4,500 people have attended at branches, the J, the Skip at Chaminade and the Ethical Society. The following author events were shared with the Board.
Upcoming Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Timothy Egan, Pulitzer Prize-winning historian - “A Fever in the Heartland: The Ku Klux Klan’s Plot to Take Over America, and the Woman Who Stopped Them” - Wednesday, April 19, 7 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis
	Dusti Bowling, “Across the Desert” - Reading Garden Series for Young Audiences - Friday, April 21, 6:30 pm - Grand Glaize Branch
	David Grann, “The Wager: A Tale of Shipwreck, Mutiny, and Murder” - Monday, April 24, 7 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis
	Martha Hall Kelly, “The Golden Doves” - Tuesday, April 25, 7 pm - SLCL Authors @ the J/Mirowitz Performing Arts Center
	Jeneva Rose, “You Shouldn’t Have Come Here” - Thursday, April 27, 7 pm - Grant’s View Branch
	Jonathan Losos, “The Cat’s Meow: How Cats Evolved from the Savanna to Your Sofa” -
Monday, May 1, 7 pm - SLCL Authors @ the J/Mirowitz Performing Arts Center
	John McManus, “To the End of the Earth: The US Army and the Downfall of Japan” -
Wednesday, May 3, 7 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis
	Becky Albertalli, “Imogen, Obviously” - Reading Garden Series for Young Audiences -
Wednesday, May 3, 6:30 pm - Grant’s View Branch
	Peter Cozzens, “A Brutal Reckoning: Andrew Jackson, the Creek Indians, and the Epic War for the American South” - Monday, May 8, 7 pm - Daniel Boone Branch
	Elaine Viets, “The Dead of Night: An Angela Richman Mystery” - Thursday, May 11, 7 pm - Daniel Boone Branch
	Soman Chainani, “Fall of the School for Good and Evil” - Reading Garden Series for Young Audiences - Presented in Partnership with the Very Asian Foundation - Friday, May 12, 6:30 pm - Daniel Boone Branch
Following Ms. Sorth’s remarks, Deborah Patterson inquired as to where the hotspots are being checked out to in St. Louis County. Ms. Sorth said she would get statistics and share it with her at the next Board meeting.   Ms. Patterson also asked how the branches were selected for the Soldiers Memorial tours.  Deputy Director Eric Button responded that several factors went into consideration including parking and getting attendees from outlying areas.
Lucas Cusi spoke for the cohorts and said they were happy to be a part of the cohort.
Dr. Beckwith asked Sandra Williams to relay his congratulations to the Black History Celebration committee for an outstanding line up of programming for the Black History celebration for 2023.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
2022 LIBRARY AUDIT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the auditor Rick Gratza, a Partner with KEB, to the Board to make his presentation.
The 2022 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and the 2022 Federal Single Audit Report were presented.  The first report includes the operation of the Library Foundation.  The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) has issued an unmodified opinion on the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.   An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements.  This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
KEB also reports that the schedule of expenditures of federal awards is fairly stated and that the District complied with the federal requirements that could have a direct effect on the federal programs for the year ended December 31, 2022.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the acceptance of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and the Federal Single Audit Report. Copies of the Annual Comprehensive Audit Report will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by
State Statute. A copy of the Federal Single Audit Report will be sent to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse as required. The reports will also be available on the Library’s website (Patterson/Sanditz).
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that the steel is being erected at the Clark Family Branch.  He also showed pictures of the design elements of the children's section at the branch. Board member Deborah Paterson asked about charging stations and how can we convert to electrical charging stations if we need to in the future.  Discussion ensued.  There will be two charging stations servicing eight vehicles. Completion date for the Clark Branch is expected in the first quarter of next year.
DRIVEWAY EASEMENT AGREEMENT AT NATURAL BRIDGE BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following.
Normandy USDA LLC is planning to construct a USDA food testing facility adjacent to the Natural Bridge Branch, on the previous site of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd. The developers would like to use the Library’s driveway for tractor-trailer access to the proposed facility.
The driveway is completely located on Library property and was not constructed to support large truck traffic. In order to protect the Library’s interests, Lashly Baer negotiated an agreement (attached) that places financial responsibility for any repair directly on the developer. Costs for regular maintenance such as snow removal and sealcoating will be shared.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation for the Driveway Easement Agreement with Normandy USDA LLC and authorize the Director and CEO to execute said agreement (Barry/Patterson).
SIDEWALK EASEMENT AGREEMENT AT PARKVIEW BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, presented the following.
The St. Louis County Department of Transportation & Public Works recently contacted Administration with a request for a permanent sidewalk easement at the Parkview Branch. The County is planning road and sidewalk upgrades along Midland Boulevard. They have requested a small amount of land for construction of an ADA accessible sidewalk ramp on the northeast corner of Library property. The County has asked that we waive compensation and grant them 320 s.f. for construction of the ramp.
Lashly Baer has reviewed the attached 1) easement agreement and 2) grant letter.
The Library Board approved the Administration’s recommendation for the Sidewalk Easement Agreement with the Department of Transportation & Public Works for the construction of a new accessible sidewalk ramp at the Parkview Branch, and authorize the Director and CEO to execute the agreement (Patterson/Sanditz).
2023 PENSION CONTRIBUTION
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following.
The Library’s Actuary, Milliman, has conducted the annual actuarial valuation and has calculated the Library’s annual pension contribution amount for 2023.
Milliman is recommending a contribution of $2,997,832 (see SLCL Actuarial Valuation January
1, 2023, page 2). The annual contribution has increased from the recommended contribution of
$2,475,680 in 2022 largely due to increasing the benefit multiplier from 1.6% to 1.8% as approved by the Pension Board and Library Board. The Library’s 2023 budget for this expense is $2,828,500, a difference of $169,332, and was based on an estimate from Milliman. The net position as a percentage of total pension liability (also known as the “funded ratio”) is 92.4%.
The Library Board approved the recommended amount of $2,997,832 as the annual contribution to the Pension Plan for 2023 (Wang/Barry).
INSURANCE RENEWALS
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following.
All lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on May 1. This year, Daniel & Henry marketed the general liability, auto, umbrella, inland marine, property and workers’ compensation. The Directors and Officers, along with the pollution policy, will stay with our current carriers Travelers and Ironshore. Chubb, Hanover, Philadelphia, Hartford, Employers and MeM were asked to submit bids on the various lines of coverage. Chubb, Hanover, Hartford, Employers, and MeM responded.
Attached please find a summary of the May 1, 2023 renewal quote from this year compared to the prior year cost. All of the insurance carriers remain the same for all lines of coverage except for property, earthquake, and workers’ compensation. The new quote for workers’ compensation from Hartford came in at the same dollar amount as the incumbent Employers. Because of performance issues with Employers, Hartford will be selected as the new carrier. The total cost to the Library District for continuing coverage will be $472,886 compared to $468,976 from last year, an increase of .83%, which is under the budgeted 10% for 2023. This increase is in line with the current marketplace.
The Library Administration, in consultation with The Daniel and Henry Company, recommends that the Library Board accept the quotes from the insurance carriers, which include The Hanover Insurance Group, Hartford, Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, Ironshore, and Chubb for a total cost of $472,886. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Sanditz).
SIMPLE SCAN CREDIT/DEBIT CARD PAYMENT KIOSKS
Eric Button, Deputy Director, presented the following.
Administration is seeking approval for the purchase of 24 credit/debit card payment kiosks to be installed on existing Simple Scan equipment throughout the District.  The very popular Simple Scan equipment is used by patrons to scan and fax documents.  All Library locations have at least one Simple Scan station, and there are 24 in total in the District.  Only two of these machines currently have the ability to receive payments by credit and debit cards.  Since installing these initial devices, the demand for this type of payment has increased at all branches.
Library Administration solicited a quote from the Simple Scan vendor, Today’s Business Solutions, for 24 credit/debit card payment kiosks to equip all remaining Simple Scan units with the credit and debit card payment option and to replace the outdated units that are already in service.  The Simple Scan equipment and software was evaluated by Library Administration, in consultation with Lashly Baer.  It was determined to be in the best interest of the Library to proceed with this procurement as a proprietary single source solution per Library Policy I--Procurement Procedures section 3-C.  Pricing for this addition is shown below:
			Item
			Unit Cost
			Units Required
			Total Cost
			Credit Card Retrofit Kit for Kiosk
			$795
			24
			$19,080
			Installation Services
			$4,550
			1
			$4,550
			Total Cost
			$23,630
In addition to the costs above, the Library will incur a monthly charge per unit of $8.95 for the service.  Transactional fees are charged at a rate of 5.95%.  Both the monthly service cost and the transactional fees are projected to be fully covered by the revenue collected from the $0.25 per page faxing fee.
Library Administration recommends that the Board authorize the Library Director to enter into and execute a contract with Today’s Business Solutions for the purchase and installation of 24 Credit Card Retrofit Kits at a total cost of $23,630. This expense was included in the Technology Budget for 2023.  The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Wang).
ADJOURNMENT
Ted Sanditz moved that the meeting adjourn. Deborah Patterson seconded.  All voted affirmatively. The meeting adjourn at 4:56 p.m.
Sincerely submitted by,
___________________________                                          _____________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                                          Date