{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "CYRU667A776A",
  "date": "2024-04-15T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
THORNHILL BRANCH
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2024
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Thornhill Branch, 12863 Willowyck, Dr., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, April 15, 2024 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Deborah Patterson, Member via telephone
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; Allen Bruce, St. Louis County, and Rick Gratza, KEB.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Emily Althoff, Sarah Kuchenmeister, Amy Gibbons, Nina Johnston, Jamel McCaine, Eve Amaluk, Katie Keeven, Anne Arthur, Matt Lakin ,Trista Doyle, Rachel Dippel, Annie Fuller, Miriam Whatley, Miriam Frenchie, Chris Goodman, Becky Maue, Sierra Williams, Amy Hanaway, Kathryn Altman, Kelli Reeves, Austin Krueger, Madison Ravenscraft, Hannah Axt, Alaina Culbertson, Sri Upadhyo and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the February 2024 Board minutes (Wang/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons present to speak to the Board.
REPORTS
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, Library CFO,  reported the following to the Board.
January Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $49.1 million which is 77% of the total budget of $63.9 million. The District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	Current Year Interest - In January, the Library District recognized $221,044 in Interest. This is 8% of our total budgeted revenue of $2.8 million.
Expense
	Collection Maintenance Software - In January, the Library District incurred a total of $173,000 in Collection Maintenance Software. This entire amount was paid to Innovative Interfaces Inc. for access to Polaris, the District’s integrated library system, through March 2025.
	Custodial Services - In January, the Library District incurred a total of $22,705 in Custodial Services. Of this amount, $20,510 was paid to Buildingstars Operations Inc. for January cleaning services and $2,195 to Republic Services for January trash services.
	Insurance - In January, the Library District incurred a total of $12,564 in Insurance. This entire amount was paid to Hartford for builder’s risk insurance for the Clark Family Branch. The branch is anticipated to open this summer.
The Library Board approved the January 2024 Financials for the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Sanditz).
February Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $49.9 million which is 78% of the total budget of $63.9 million. The District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	Current Year Interest - In February, the Library District recognized $187,481 in Interest. This is 15% of our total budgeted revenue of $2.8 million.
Expense
	Bldg. Operations-Snow Removal - In February, the Library District incurred a total of $71,038 in Bldg. Operations-Snow Removal. This entire amount was paid to BSR Services Inc. for snow removal and chemical applications throughout the Library District in January.
	Technology - Equipment - In February, the Library District incurred a total of $122,861 in Technology - Equipment. Of this amount, $75,739 was paid to ConvergeOne Inc. for network switches and Wi-Fi access point replacements.
	Capital Improvements - In February, the Library District incurred a total of $1,617,714 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $1,476,858 was paid to Interior Construction Services and $32,190 to Avison Young for January services at the Clark Family Branch, as well as $74,791 to Datum Filing Systems for high density shelving at the Clark Family Branch.
The Library Board approved the February 2024 Financials for the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Barry/Wang).
March Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $50.6 million which is 79% of the total budget of $63.9 million. The District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Grants - In March, the Library District recognized $13,154 in State Grants. Of this amount, $10,154 was for the Tech Mini Grant to replace hardware for youth programming and material returns.
	Miscellaneous Income - In March, the Library District recognized $138,121 in Miscellaneous Income. Of this amount, $135,000 was received from the Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District for the Construction and Temporary Use Easement at the Daniel Boone Branch.
Expense
	Bldg. Operations-Snow Removal - In March, the Library District incurred a total of $73,435 in Bldg. Operations-Snow Removal. This entire amount was paid to BSR Services Inc. for snow removal and chemical applications throughout the Library District in January and February.
	Technology - Software & Licenses - In March, the Library District incurred a total of $58,779 in Technology - Software & Licenses. Of this amount, $42,336 was paid to Mangoapps Inc. for cloud hosting of Stacks, the Library’s intranet, through January 2025.
	Capital Improvements - In March, the Library District incurred a total of $1,784,009 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $1,584,953 was paid to Interior Construction Services, $57,142 to Lamar Johnson Collaborative, and $26,625 to Avison Young for January and February services at the Clark Family Branch, as well as $60,271 to CI Select for furniture at the Clark Family Branch.
The Library Board approved the March 2024 Financials for the Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Barry).
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Director and CEO Kristen Sorth, delivered the Library Update for April, 2024
	Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard reports for February and March. Circulation for the month of February increased 4% over total circulation in February, 2023 and decreased by 5.8% in March.  eMedia circulation increased by 19% and 13% compared to this time last year.  Programming statistics soared in February due to Black History Month programming with an increase of 25%.  In February, 182 of the Library’s programs were part of the celebration with 5,126 patrons attending.  March also saw a significant jump with an increase of 16% in program attendance compared to 2023. The bookable hotspots launched in February.  There are currently 21 bookable hotspots on loan to patrons with 78 reservations scheduled between now and December.  The March Dashboard includes information about Library card holders.  The Library has a total of 824,877 patrons in the system. Of those, 2,176 registered for cards in March. The new patrons checked out 8,449 items.  Throughout the 2023/2024 school year, 113,562 ConnectEd cards have been added from the 24 school districts participating in the program, resulting in 21,297 eMedia circulations from ConnectEd students during that time. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3a, Increase Access 1c)
	Work continues on the implementation of the ePopUp Library.  This collection of eBooks and eAudiobooks will launch in June with cooperation from several partners, including Bi-State, St. Louis County Government, St. Louis Lambert International Airport, and Schnucks.  The ePopUp Library offers easy access to patrons even if they do not have a library card.  A user merely scans the QR code, provides their email address and chooses a password.  After that, they can select materials and borrow them immediately without any waiting.  This collection removes many of the barriers associated with borrowing eBooks and we hope that we will reach many new library users as a result.  This eMedia collection is funded by the Clark Family’s gift to support Library programs and services. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2d, Sense of Community 2a, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
	She said new copy machines have been deployed to all departments and branches.  The units installed at the branches will no longer offer the option to pay with cash and coins.  Instead, patrons will have the opportunity to use their $5.00 monthly printing credit for copies produced on the machine.  Users without a library card may purchase credit on a copy card to be used to make copies.  These new copiers from GFI will also provide patrons with an additional print release station for printing on library computers.  This will reduce the instances of patrons having to wait in line to release print jobs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3c)
	Justice Services Specialist, Miranda Gibson, and Ms. Sorth met with representatives from the MacArthur Foundation to discuss the Tap In Center (TIC) on their annual visit.  Here are several notable statistics that we shared at that meeting.
	The Tap In Center (TIC) served 1,088 visitors in the first three years of operation (September 2020 to December 2023).
	80% of participants did not have an attorney at the time of visiting the TIC.
	The TIC has facilitated 1,041 warrant recalls – 237 at the felony level, 59 at the misdemeanor level, and 745 at the ordinance violation level.
	Through a new partnership, the TIC facilitated 363 warrant recalls for St. Louis City Municipal Court cases.
	85% of participants who had a warrant recalled with TIC assistance did not return to jail within one year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	For the first two years of the program, the Tap In Center (TIC) was only able to assist with warrants issued due to missing a court date on felony or misdemeanor cases filed in St. Louis County. Though the scope was limited, people regularly reached out to the TIC for assistance with municipal cases, which included traffic and other ordinance violations.  Seeing the great need for assistance with municipal warrants, the TIC first began partnering with the St. Louis City Municipal Court in January 2023 because TIC staff was receiving the most requests for help from this jurisdiction. This partnership with the City has resulted in the successful recall of over 400 warrants.  The TIC continued to receive requests regarding the municipal courts in St. Louis County.  She reached out to Prosecuting Attorney, Wesley Bell, for assistance.  His team connected the Library with the City of Florissant since that is the municipality where the TIC is located.  Beginning April 2024, the TIC Center is partnering with the Florissant Municipal Court to expand our scope of service. Through this partnership, we can now assist participants who have active warrants issued by the Florissant Municipal Court due to missing a court date. This is the first municipality in St. Louis County to partner with us, and we are looking forward to forming partnerships with others in the region. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	On Saturday, April 13, the Library hosted the annual Community Autism Expo at Florissant Valley. Attendees were able to visit with over 20 local organizations to learn about services and resources available for individuals with autism and their families. Library Associate Adam Rosen established the first successful Community Autism Expo at the Parkview Branch in 2018. Six years later, the event has grown into a larger space with even more participating organizations that help foster inclusivity. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2d, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1c)
	Creative Wisdom art courses will be held for eight weeks in April and May at the Bridgeton Trails and Cliff Cave branches, supported by an Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) grant from Lifetime Arts and the Missouri State Library. The grant helps to support creative aging programs and social engagement for adults ages 55 and older. Over 150 people applied to participate in these programs and 24 were chosen by lottery. The programs will take place at Bridgeton Trails and Cliff Cave. Participants will receive all required art supplies and an opportunity to showcase completed artwork at the branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a)
	The History & Genealogy Department has a new Digital Archive supported by the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Digital Imaging Grant. The site contains hundreds of digitized records including Missouri yearbooks, St. Louis newspapers, St. Louis City and County directories, burial certificates, maps and atlases. Prior to this project, these items in the Library’s collection have existed solely in physical format - either bound or as microfilm or microfiche.  The physical nature of the records means that they can only be used by one person at a time and that person must be able to travel to where the material is located.  Digitizing and making them available on a searchable online platform will enable a much greater number of researchers to find and access the records, while also overcoming barriers that can prevent people from accessing the physical materials. The site will continue to grow as items are digitized and added to the collection. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3c, Increase Access 1d)
	Ms. Sorth announced that April is National Poetry Month and the Library is accepting submissions for a digital collection of patron poetry. Adult Services is welcoming poems from patrons for inclusion in the annual anthology. This year, the Library has partnered with St. Louis Poetry Center to host a contest for three age groups: kids, teens, and adults. The winner of each age category will be spotlighted in the anthology. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
	The Adult Services Department is working with the Missouri History Museum to offer a temporary banner exhibit for their exhibit titled "#1 In Civil Rights". This collection of banners will travel to Weber Road in July, Natural Bridge in August, Lewis and Clark in September, Clark Family in October, Daniel Boone in November, and Eureka Hills in December. In 2025, the exhibit will visit Bridgeton Trails, Jamestown Bluffs and Grand Glaize. The exhibit consists of 14 banners that can be displayed throughout the branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a)
	Thanks to a new partnership with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, 2,850 tickets were issued to members of the community for concert performances by the Symphony.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Applications for the paid Sidney Johnson Internship were accepted during March.  The Library received 358 applications.  Interviews will take place later in April.  Three teens will be chosen to intern this summer.  This program is sponsored by the Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 2d, 3b, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
	Throughout the month of May, the Library will celebrate Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month with programs at all branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
	She said the BGG Foundation (BGG) will be hosting the first gaming program at Prairie Commons on Saturday, April 13.  Weber Road, Florissant Valley and Thornhill are hosting the other three programs taking place in May and June. BGG will offer a range of activities from the newest consoles to board games and virtual reality. The program is for ages 18 and under. This will all lead up to a large gaming tournament hosted by BGG at the Clark Family Branch in July. The BGG Foundation is dedicated to empowering socioeconomically disadvantaged youth by utilizing gaming to lead them to higher education. All of these programs are sponsored by The Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Thanks to a partnership with Project Circles of Support, the social workers at Lewis & Clark and Rock Road will be piloting a distribution of hygiene boxes. One box has period supplies and the other box is intended for use by anyone. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The 21-Day Racial Equity & Social Justice Challenge starts on May 1. This year's virtual challenge will encourage our community to make daily time and space for 21 days to foster understanding and identify ways to dismantle racism and end discrimination. Participants will receive daily emails with links to shared learning and an opportunity to participate in optional facilitated discussions together over Zoom on Fridays. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b)
	St. Louis City SC has agreed to launch a library card with the soccer team’s logo on it.  The Library plans to announce the new library card in May in conjunction with St. Louis Public Library (SLPL) when we also announce the Joint Summer Reading Club Program between SLCL and SLPL. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	The Library will continue to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
Service Stats 2021 to Current:
Service Stats 2024 only:
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles were shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last two months including: Author Billy Dee Williams at The Skip, Author A’ja Wilson at the Ethical Society, The Gift of Gospel at Florissant Valley, Author RuPaul at The Pageant, Tiny Dancers at Weber Road, Dog Man Party at Daniel Boone, Craft Hour at Meramec Valley, Holi Celebration at Rock Road, Infant Massage at Oak Bend, Author Lisa Scottoline at Daniel Boone, and Author Valerie Bertinelli at The Skip. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories were shared from various branches
	From a branch: A patron came in to do a Zoom interview and we successfully got everything set up for her. She proceeded to tell me that about a year ago, she came into our branch when she was at a really low point in her life and was crying to one of our staff members, and that staff member listened and continuously checked on her to make sure she was doing all right. She said that our staff is amazing and she can feel the love when she comes in. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	A patron just mentioned how grateful he is because our library provides a free printing allowance each month.  He is very thankful for this benefit as a card member.  He also said the staff members are very helpful and friendly. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3c)
	A patron stated, “The SLCL has so much to offer to the public, and great services. The Social Workers are a great addition to the branches, helping people with different issues.  Helping the homeless, and helping people find shelters, and helping people find new homes. Helping people to deal with personal issues, and most of all assisting people with finding employment. The CAASTLC is another good addition to the branches, it is a big help for all with housing issues and dealing with utilities.  The library is an all-around great service for the community. I tell all my friends to go to the library for all your resources.” (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	During First Art today, a parent and I were talking (and watching a very sweet reunion between old friends who happened to run into each other at the program) and he said "I can't tell you how special the library is for people who immigrated here." He went on to tell me that he is from India where public libraries and public parks are not common. When we came to the US as a college student he said he spent a ton of time studying in libraries, and now he loves bringing his child here for library programs. He said when people ask him what his favorite things about living in America are, SLCL is always in his top three. (Plan: Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a, 2c)
	It was a beautiful day and a parent offered her daughter a choice between the library and the park. The child picked the library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Increase Access 1a)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said the Library is pleased to announce the grand opening of the new Clark Family Branch.  The opening will occur in two phases. On June 1, the Post Event Space will open to the public at 1:00 p.m. for a ticketed event with Darius Rucker, of Hootie and the Blowfish and country music fame.  A ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Post Event Space will be held at 12:00 p.m.  On Tuesday, July 9, an official ribbon cutting ceremony for the Clark Family Branch will be held at 9:00 a.m. and the entire branch will open to the public immediately following. This is the final project of Your Library Renewed.  The Library has completed 21 buildings in 10 years.  That is a unique and significant accomplishment.  Thanks to the Library Board and the Library employees for their work on Your Library Renewed.
	In 2021, the Library embarked on a much more involved and transparent financial reporting
process by creating a Comprehensive Financial Report. For the fourth year in a row, our work has been acknowledged! The Library is again receiving the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting. The GFOA established the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting Program in 1945 to encourage and assist state and local governments to go beyond the minimum requirements of generally accepted accounting principles to prepare comprehensive annual financial reports that evidence the spirit of transparency and full disclosure and then to recognize individual governments that succeed in achieving that goal. The Certificate of Achievement is the highest form of recognition in governmental accounting and financial reporting.  Congratulations to CFO, Laura Taylor and the Finance Department (Plan: Sense of Community 2d)
	On March 22, Miranda Gibson accepted the 2024 Criminal Justice Agency or Non-Profit Organization Leadership and Innovation Award on behalf of the Tap In Center. The honor was awarded by the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences (ACJS) at the ACJS annual conference in Chicago, IL. This award recognizes a criminal justice agency or non-profit organization whose work has had a direct, positive, and significant effect on the criminal justice system, with a commitment to improving the criminal justice system. These contributions may include community outreach, program development, policy implementation, education, training, direct services, research, and legislative action. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The Employee Engagement Committee’s (EEC) goal is to support a work environment where every employee feels valued, empowered, and inspired. The EEC encourages employees’ involvement and presents activities that boost the Library’s workplace culture, as well as the emotional and social well-being of employees. This year, they will host Employee Engagement Day (formerly known as In-Service Day) on October 14th at the Clark Family Branch. The EEC will plan, schedule and execute the event. This will be the first Employee Engagement Day since the pandemic.  Library Workers Appreciation Day was Tuesday, April 9. All employees received a branded lunch bag and a cooling towel. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	The changes to the Personnel Manual that were approved by the Library Board last month were communicated to all Library employees and were very well received.  Many employees expressed gratitude for the changes. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	In March, Ms. Sorth moderated a conversation for the Investor Council within Greater St. Louis Inc.  She suggested that they focus on the economic impact of arts and culture in the region and they agreed.  Over 100 business and civic leaders attended the panel discussion of voices from the metro’s arts and culture institutions to discuss the incredible impact the arts have on our community and economy. She reached out to several executive directors to ask them to participate with me and they all said yes! The panel featured Kwofe Coleman, President and CEO, The Muny; Andrew Jorgensen, General Director, Opera Theatre of Saint Louis; and Min Jung Kim, Director, Saint Louis Art Museum. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3a, Increase Access 2b, 2c)
	The ITS Department is preparing for the opening of Clark Family branch.  ITS' Technical Purchasing Coordinator, Erin Dominguez has solicited quotations for and written 38 different purchase orders.  ITS has received over 1,859 items which will be deployed into the new building.  Items vary from network cables and WiFi access points to PCs and creative space items like 3D printers and audio video recording equipment, to name a few. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The SoulFisher Ministries is a non-profit organization in St. Louis with a mission to respond to the needs of youth with incarcerated parents and to promote restorative justice to those currently or formerly incarcerated. A part of their goals and vision is to provide those impacted by incarceration with quality careers and opportunities for successful reintegration. They provide educational and professional opportunities to their clients to help them in their transition. They also host various events to connect clients to quality employment. On March 15th, Megan Phifer-Davis, Miranda Gibson, and Tarza Tawfiq presented to the clients of SoulFisher about working at the Library, our hiring process, benefits, databases and job seeker resources. They also heard Bethany Cutkomp (Library Associate) and Laron Smith (Library Clerk) talk about their roles and what they liked about their jobs. The group loved hearing first-hand from our employees. They heard from Terence McCoy who talked about his path to management and then gave the group a tour of the Rock Road branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 1c, 2d, 3a, 3b)
	The STL Summer Adventure marketing materials are in progress for the joint summer reading club program with SLCL and SLPL. Communications is creating a log booklet, bookmark, flyers, social graphics, email banners, roll-up banners and digital displays. A press conference announcing the new program, along with the City SC partnership, will take place in May. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 2a, 2b)
	She said the Communications Department is working on a press release to announce the opening date for the Clark Family Branch and the Post Holdings Event Center. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c, 2a, 2c)
	Communications created a fun video starring Library employees to promote the new Rhythm Kits.  This video was shared widely on social media.  It is styled after National Public Radio’s (NPR) Tiny Desk Concerts.  Rhythm kits include a variety of instruments including finger cymbals, triangle sets, tambourines, maracas and sand blocks. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 2b, 2d)
	Ms. Sorth congratulated the new class of the Staff Development Cohort. The 10-month program focuses on understanding the foundations of library operations, materials, resources, and services. Employees will learn from departments and participate in experiential learning to further their personal and professional development to make greater contributions to the Library and the St. Louis region.
	Austin Krueger, Library Associate, Oak Bend Branch
	Isabella Marcallini, Marketing Assistant, Communications Department
	Jared Hamline, Library Associate, Bookmobile and Mobile Services
	Kathryn Altman, Library Associate, Clark Family Branch
	Kelsey Roberts, Library Associate, Cliff Cave Branch
	Madison Ravenscraft, Library Associate, Prairie Commons Branch
	Marianne Atkinson, Library Associate, Weber Road Branch
	Miriam Frenchie, Library Associate, Thornhill Branch
	Sarah Kuchenmeister, Library Associate, Mid-County Branch
	Sierra Williams, Public Safety Specialist, Administration Department
      (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	Ms. Sorth was recently notified that that she had been named a Community Changemaker by FOCUS St. Louis' What's Right with the Region Awards. Honorees are individuals leading and inspiring change in their organizations, their community and/or our region for the benefit of all. The nomination said, "Kristen Sorth has led our organization beyond the traditional role as a book and information repository and continues to push the boundaries of public librarianship and search outside of library science for innovative solutions. Sorth is a prolific public servant demonstrating outstanding leadership in serving the St. Louis region. She continuously looks for opportunities for the Library to bridge gaps in services and provide assistance to the communities we serve for issues like the digital divide, food insecurity, economic instability, health disparities, and the concerns of the justice-involved.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b,  3a, 3c, Sense of Community 2d, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	The 2024 Library Budget included plans to engage architectural and engineering support for smaller construction projects, such as renovating a teen area or upgrading a children’s space. An RFQ was issued, responses were received and interviews were conducted. An architect was selected.  Per State Statute, we have completed negotiations with the selected firm. The recommendation will be presented later in the meeting. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	Two sets of Adirondack chairs have been installed at the Meramec Valley walking path. (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
	In March, the Library received a check from the Metropolitan Sewer District (MSD) for $135,000 in compensation for their upcoming work at Daniel Boone. (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
Library Foundation
	The Foundation’s Donor Appreciation Breakfast featuring Helen Simonson, author of The Hazelbourne Ladies Motorcycle and Flying Club, will take place at the Grant’s View Branch on May 15 at 7:30 a.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	The Library was awarded two Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) grants from the Missouri State Library:
		The LSTA Memory Kit Grant provided $4,992 for 32 memory kits to help individuals experiencing memory loss. The kits contain a set of materials about a central topic to help adults experiencing memory loss with retaining memory and reminiscing. The kits will also be useful for caregivers. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, Sense of Community 3b)
		The LSTA Spotlight on Literacy Grant awarded SLCL $15,000 for a floating social worker who will travel to branches that don’t already have a social worker, to serve patrons in need wherever they are. The floating social worker will also provide Mental Health First Aid training to Library employees.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said that in addition to their donation for the Clark Family Branch, the Clark Family also committed $2 million for Library programs with a donation of $200,000 once a year for 10 years.  I have been in touch with the family about our programming ideas.  They have approved all of the below programs.  Ms. Sorth will acknowledge their gift in all of the promotional materials.
		The BGG Foundation will be hosting the first gaming program at Prairie Commons on Saturday, April 13.  Weber Road, Florissant Valley and Thornhill are hosting the other three programs taking place in May and June. BGG will offer a range of activities from the newest consoles to board games and virtual reality. The program is for ages 18 and under. This will all lead up to a large gaming tournament hosted by BGG at the Clark Family Branch in July. The BGG Foundation is dedicated to empowering socioeconomically disadvantaged youth by utilizing gaming to lead them to higher education. All of these programs are sponsored by The Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
		There will be a Small Business Center in the Clark Family Branch.  We have two current pilot programs that are focused on separate groups of non-traditional entrepreneurs--the justice-involved and older adults.  While some funders are interested in these programs, most will not cover the cost of startup capital which is a crucial part.
			The SLCL Small Business Launchpad is a 6-month small business incubator for justice-involved individuals to help ideate and launch a small business dream. Throughout the 6 months, the 12 participants will learn about the entrepreneurial mindset, finances, marketing, business plans, and more from librarians at St. Louis County Library and St. Louis County community organizations. The current pilot started in August and ended this month with a pitch competition occurring in February. The pitch will bring together the participant's six months of work to showcase their new businesses to potential funders and judges to help fund their business dreams.  Financial security is one of the hardest parts of starting a business and our support will help tackle that barrier. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b)
			The Pitch Perfect: Encore Entrepreneur pilot will be an 8-week fast track program for patrons over 55 with an early stage business. Similar to the Launchpad, sessions will cover business plans, marketing, and legal needs, but also include age-specific sessions on finances with retirement in mind, combating ageism, and translating life experience into business skills. This program will also end in a pitch to potential funders, to not only help get them possible funds to continue their entrepreneurial dreams, but to also give them practice in asking for funding. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b)
		ePopUp Library.  This collection of eBooks and eAudiobooks will launch in June with cooperation from several partners, including Bi-State, St. Louis County Government, St. Louis Lambert International Airport, and Schnucks.  The ePopUp Library offers easy access to patrons even if they do not have a library card.  A user merely scans the QR code, provides their email address and chooses a password.  After that, they can select materials and borrow them immediately. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2d, Sense of Community 2a, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
		In 2024, the Library will host the Teen Book Festival at the Clark Family Branch on December 7th.  Due to the expected volume, we plan to close the branch for all other activities to just focus on this event. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 2b, 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
Ms. Sorth shared the following Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Hampton Sides, author of “The Wide Wide Sea,” Tuesday, April 16, 2024, 6:30 p.m., Missouri History Museum.
	Megan Miranda, author of “Daughter of Mine,” Wednesday, April 17, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Jane Smiley, Pulitzer Prize winning novelist and author of “Lucky,” April 25, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Grant’s View Branch
	Sally Hepworth, author of “Darling Girls,” Monday, April 29, 2024, 7:00 p.m., The J.
	SOLD OUT–Ticketed Event: Amor Towles, author of “Table for Two,” Wednesday, May 1, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Skip Viragh Performing Arts Center.
	Bakari Sellers, author of “The Moment,” Thursday, May 2, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Ethical Society of St. Louis.
	Jeneva Rose, author of “Home is Where the Bodies Are,” Tuesday, May 7, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
	Ticketed Event: Erik Larson, author of “The Demon of Unrest,” Thursday, May 9, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Blanche M. Touhill Performing Arts Center.
	Bob Drury and Tom Clavin, authors of “Throne of Grace,” Monday, May 13, 2024, 7:00 p.m., Daniel Boone Branch.
	Helen Simonson, author of “The Hazelbourne Ladies Motorcycle and Flying Club,” Tuesday, May 14, 7:00 p.m., Grant's View Branch.
She said the Clark Family Branch will begin hosting author events in the Post Holdings Event Space starting in early June.  The kickoff event will feature Grammy-Award winning musician Darius Rucker for his memoir “Life’s Too Short” on June 1.  The time is to be determined.
Other major author events planned for the opening month include:
	June 10 - renowned historian Doris Kearns Goodwin (ticketed)
	June 13 - Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Nicholas Kristof (ticketed)
	June 12 - Science Writer Jennifer Ackerman
	Popular fiction writers:
		Craig Johnson (June 3)
		Katherine Center (June 12)
		Paul Tremblay (June 14)
		Riley Sager (June 18)
		Nicola Yoon (June 20)
		Gabrielle Zevin (June 27)
	June 30 - Bestselling YA Fantasy Author Tomi Adeyemi
Dr. Beckwith said in 2012 the patrons passed a tax Levy for new branches and reconstruction. He said he was pleased that the Library carried out the voters wishes.
OLD BUSINESS
NONE
NEW BUSINESS
2023 LIBRARY AUDIT
The 2023 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report is attached and includes the operation of the Library Foundation. The Library’s Auditor, Kerber, Eck & Braeckel (KEB) has issued an unmodified opinion on the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report. An opinion is said to be “unmodified” when the auditor has no reservations concerning the financial statements. This is also known as a “clean opinion” meaning the financial statements appear to be presented fairly in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Rick Gratza, a Partner with KEB, will present the reports and answer any questions. Rick oversees the Library audit.
The Library Board approved the recommendation for acceptance of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report. Copies of the Annual Comprehensive Audit Report will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The report will also be available on the Library’s website (Wang/Barry).
PRESENTATION BY THE ADVANCEMENT DEPARTMENT
Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director of Advancement, presented her department’s team of four members including: Terri Williams, Ashley Sexton and Cody Meyer.  She discussed the Library Foundations role in raising funds for various library programs. Ms. Hamilton presented a Powerpoint that included spreadsheets of how funds were disbursed.
Ted Sanditz requested a copy of the slide presentation.
Deborah Patterson requested a copy of the individual major gifts including pie charts.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that the Clark Family Branch would open on July 9th.  He also said that high density shelving has been installed.  The elevator inspection has taken place.  He said the minority workforce participation for the Clark Family Branch was 15.1% to date. The sod is in and landscaping pictures were shown.
Lights are now in place in the ceiling. Furniture is being installed in the adult reading area.
LICENSE AGREEMENT WITH MSD AT CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, delivered this report.
The Metropolitan Sewer District (MSD) has asked to install a permanent rain gauge at the Clark Family Branch. This gauge is one of dozens MSD has in their service area to help with data collection. The gauge would be installed off the northeast edge of the parking lot. The Library has no financial or service obligations for this device.
The agreement with MSD is attached. Lashly-Baer has reviewed the document.
The Library Board approved the recommendation from Administration for the MSD License Agreement at the Clark Family Branch and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute the agreement (Patterson/Barry).
ON-CALL ARCHITECT SELECTION
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, delivered this report.
On January 2, 2024, Library Administration issued a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for Architectural and Engineering Services for a three-year contract to provide on-call design assistance for some of the Library’s smaller renovation projects. The RFQ was posted on our website and directly emailed to forty-three architectural firms.
Responses to the RFQ were due January 16, 2024. Twelve responses were received. The Selection Procedures for Architects and Engineers are clearly defined by Missouri State Statute and described in the Library’s Purchasing Policy II for Professional Services (attached).
A selection committee consisting of Kristen Sorth, Eric Button, Steve Hunter, and Kelli Reeves individually reviewed the proposals. Based on the committee’s consolidated rankings, four firms were selected for interviews which were conducted on February 8, 2024:
		Lamar Johnson Collaborative
		Arcturis
		Gray Design Group
		Paragon
Following the interviews the committee deliberated over which team would be the best fit for the project. In accordance with Purchasing Policy II and Missouri State Statute, the following selection criteria were used:
	The specialized experience and technical competence of the firm with respect to the type of services required;
	The capacity and capability of the firm to perform the work in question, including specialized services, within the time limitations required;
	The past experience with references for comparable work;
	Insurance required such as professional liability; and
	The firm’s proximity to and familiarity with the area in which the project is located.
The committee unanimously agreed that Lamar Johnson Collaborative best met the required criteria.
The fee was then negotiated as required by the selection procedures. Since the scope of work for the 2024 projects is not yet defined, and for subsequent years the projects themselves not yet identified or budgeted, the fee is presented in a “per hour” format. This is provided by specific job responsibility and skill set. The architect and each of its consultants provided rate sheets with annual escalation limits that all are in line with Administration’s expectations. Those rate schedules are attached.
In order to align with the Library’s annual budgeting process, Administration is proposing that the contract extend to the end of the 2027 calendar (fiscal) year. This is 43 months rather than the Library’s standard 3 years. Lamar Johnson is in agreement with this suggestion. Lashly-Baer has reviewed this extension.
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to select Lamar Johnson Collaborative to provide on-call Architectural and Engineering Services for smaller projects. Administration further recommends that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract with Lamar Johnson terminating on December 31, 2027 (Wang/Sanditz).
PENSION CONTRIBUTION
Laura Taylor, Library CFO, presented the report.
The Library’s Actuary, Milliman, has conducted the annual actuarial valuation
and has calculated the Library’s annual pension contribution amount for 2024.
Milliman is recommending a contribution of $3,162,287 (see Actuarial Valuation January
1, 2024, page 2). The annual contribution has increased $164,455 from the recommended contribution of $2,997,832 in 2023 largely due to the return on the actuarial value of assets being lower (6.0% vs. 6.75%) and increased average administrative expenses over the last three years.
The Library’s 2024 budget for this expense is $3,325,000, a difference of $162,713 less than budgeted, and was based on an estimate from Milliman. The net position as a percentage of total pension liability (also known as the “funded ratio”) is 92.5% (see Valuation January 1, 2024, page 9).
The Library Board approved Administration’s recommendation to authorize the recommended amount of $3,162,287 as the annual contribution to the Pension Plan for 2024 (Barry/Wang).
INSURANCE RENEWALS
Laura Taylor, Library CFO, presented the report.
All lines of the Library’s insurance policies renew each year on May 1 with the exception of the Library’s extra flood insurance. This year, Daniel & Henry only marketed workers’ compensation as they did a full remarket of all lines of coverage last year. Hartford and Hanover were asked to submit bids for workers’ compensation and responded. Hanover’s bid was less that our current carrier, Hartford; however, the Library is very pleased with Hartford’s customer service and believes the small savings does not warrant the cost of making the administrative changes.  Hartford has only been the Library’s workers’ compensation carrier for one year.  The $1,053 increase to stay with Hartford is less than a 1% increase.  Library Administration is recommending that the directors and officers, property, inland marine and workers’ compensation all stay with the Library’s current carriers Travelers, Chubb, Hanover, and Hartford.
Attached please find a summary of the May 1, 2024 renewal quote from this year compared to the prior year cost. All of the insurance carriers remain the same for all lines of coverage. The total cost to the Library District for continuing coverage will be $502,126 compared to $466,663 from last year, an increase of 7.6%, which is under the budgeted 10% for 2024. There are increases for various lines of coverage and they are in line with the current marketplace.
The Library Administration, in consultation with The Daniel and Henry Company, recommends that the Library Board accept the quotes from the insurance carriers, which include The Hanover Insurance Group, Hartford, Travelers Casualty & Surety Company of America, and Chubb for a total cost of $502,126. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Sanditz).
457 DEFERRED COMP
Laura Taylor, Library CFO, presented the report.
The Library’s 457/Deferred Compensation Plan was last revised with amendments in 2013 when the District moved to a new provider.  The 457 Plan is a means by which employees can save for their retirement on a pre-tax or after-tax basis through payroll deductions.
The Library’s Human Resources Legal Counsel from Constangy, Brooks, Smith & Prophete, has restated the entire plan to include major revisions that reflect current law and current best practices. The Deferred Compensation Plan restatement document is attached. The addition of a loan option for participants is included in the document.
The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the revised 457/Deferred Compensation Plan as updated by Constangy, Brooks Smith & Prophete effective July 1, 2024, in substantially the form presented at this meeting, and authorize the Library Director and CEO to make additional changes as needed to finalize the documents. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Sanditz/Wang).
401(A) PLAN
Laura Taylor, Library CFO, presented the report.
The approved 2024 Library Budget included a matching contribution for the Library District’s 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan.  With that match, the Library Board must approve a new plan and plan document.  The new plan is entitled the St. Louis County Library 401(a) Plan.   Library Administration has been working on increasing participation in the deferred compensation plan and believes adding the match is a necessary supplement to the current Pension Plan.
Currently, as an incentive to participate in the 457(b) plan, the Library offers a one-time $100 contribution to any employee who signs up within one month of their hire date.  EPIC is the Library’s 457 Plan Administrator.  They presented several common scenarios for the Library to consider for the 401 (a) Plan.  Library Administration is recommending adding a match of 50 cents for every dollar contributed by the employee.  The Library will cap the matching contribution at 1.5% of the employee’s annual salary.  In order for the employee to get the full 1.5% matching contribution, they will have to contribute 3% of their annual salary.
For the 2024 Library Budget that was approved at the December 2023 Board Meeting, the Library estimated the dollar amount to the Library if all eligible employees participated and contributed 1.5% of their annual salary starting on January 1.  That scenario would cost the Library approximately $200,555 annually.  In addition, $50,000 was added to that number in the event that employees decided to increase their withholdings to take advantage of the full match.  While this level of participation is unlikely, $250,555 was used as a conservative estimate in the budget document.
EPIC drafted the Adoption Agreement and the 401(a) Plan Document Summary.  The Library’s Human Resources Legal Counsel from Constangy, Brooks, Smith & Prophete, has reviewed the attached Adoption Agreement and the 401(a) Plan Document Summary.
Per State Statute, the Library is required to take certain steps before the new matching contribution plan can be approved.  The Library will submit the documents to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER).  The JCPER is required to notify the public of this new plan.  This is accomplished by posting the plan on their website for 45 days.  Following the 45 days, the 401 (a) Plan will be implemented on July 1, 2024.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the new 401(a) Plan which contains a matching contribution of 50 cents for every dollar contributed, up to a maximum of 1.5% of the employee’s annual salary. If approved, the 401(a) Plan will be implemented on July 1, 2024. The implementation is contingent on the conclusion of the 45 days waiting period with no identified issues. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Barry).
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. Wang made a motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).  Ms. Barry seconded.  All approved by voice vote.
Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
Library Board meeting ended at 5:08 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
______________________                                                    ___________________
Joan Barry, Secretary                                                              Date