{
  "name": "Regular Meeting held VIA ZOOM PLATFORM",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "CYRTS478B67A",
  "date": "2024-01-22T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
VIA ZOOM PLATFORM
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2024
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held via ZOOM due to inclement weather on Monday, January 22, 2024 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice-President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Joan Barry, Secretary
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING VIA ZOOM:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jackie Hamilton, Assistant Director, Advancement; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney, Lashly Baer; and Dr. Monica Stewart, St. Louis County; and Sandy Williams.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Staff members attended via telephone.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the December 18, 2023 Board Minutes (Sanditz/Barry).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There were no patrons who wished to speak before the Board.
REPORTS
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO presented the report.
Library Update
	2023 Review: Ms. Sorth said that this month the Dashboard includes information on the Library’s 2023 statistics.
		In 2023, St. Louis County Library circulation totaled 11,023,266. This total represents an increase of nearly 200,000, or 2%, over total circulation in 2022.
		Total circulation consisted of 4,069,264 checkouts (37% of total), 3,643,373 renewals (33%), and 3,310,627 eMedia checkouts (30%).
		Several branches saw significant circulation increases in 2023 compared to 2022. Circulation at Mid-County increased by 17%. Oak Bend circulation increased by 13%, and circulation at Meramec Valley increased by 8%.
		eMedia circulation accounted for 30% of total Library circulation. Usage increased 13% over 2022 and was 60% higher than pre-pandemic circulation in 2019. Facilitating nearly 90% of eMedia checkouts, Overdrive is the most used platform, with circulation of nearly 3 million. On the Overdrive site and the associated Libby app, 57% of checkouts were eBooks, 36% were eAudiobooks, and 7% were magazines.
		She said printed books remain the most popular format for Library patrons. Printed Books and magazines made up 56% of Library circulation in 2023. As mentioned previously, eMedia checkouts made up 30% of circulation. DVDs and Video games made up 10% of circulation. Among printed books, children’s titles circulated the most – making up 50% of total print book circulation. Adult Fiction titles made up 23% of printed book circulation.
		The special materials collection remained remarkably popular in 2023. Items from the Library of Things circulated over 50,000 times throughout the year. Technology, such as Wi-Fi Hotspots and Chromebooks, have helped thousands of patrons access the Internet.  Library patrons have access to 446 Wi-Fi Hotspots. With 150 new units added in March 2023, and another 54 added in September as a part of a grant from Ameren, the waitlist has decreased from 800 at the beginning of 2023, to 275 at the end of the year. Hotspots circulated 2,820 times in 2023. The most popular checkout branches for the hotspots were Lewis & Clark and Natural Bridge.
		A total of 3,524,230 patrons visited the library in 2023. This is an increase of 9% over visits in 2022. Nearly all Library branches saw an increase in visitors in 2023. The highest increases were seen at the Oak Bend branch, with an increase of 31%. Visits at Lewis & Clark increased by 29%, visits at Prairie Commons & Florissant Valley increased by 26%, and visits at the Meramec Valley Branch increased by 24%.
		The Library hosted 23,239 programs in 2023. Attendance reached 448,532, surpassing the 2022 attendance total by 28%. The attendee count includes 41,519 Summer Reading Club registrants and 12,877 Winter Reading Club registrants. The Storytelling Festival featured 28 public events, 1 author event, and 42 school and senior facility visits. Over 11,000 patrons attended Storytelling events over the span of just 10 days.
		In 2023, the Library added 62,101 new patrons, expanding its community of Library cardholders to a total of 818,923. In addition, 22 school districts participated in the ConnectEd program in the 2023-2024 school year. This gives 133,823 students access to SLCL’s online databases and eMedia.
		Over 100,000 patrons used the Library’s public computers in 2023, logging 518,503 sessions. This is an increase of 16% over PC usage in 2022. There were 450,216 Wi-Fi sessions, which is a 1.2% decrease over total Wi-Fi sessions in 2022.
		In 2023, 233,744 new items were added into circulation. The Cataloging department cataloged 19,895 new and added-copy titles. The total number of items in the Library catalog reached 1,667,721. In the merged catalog with St. Louis Public Library, our patrons have access to 3,177,874 items in the catalog linked to just over 1 million titles. If including items not in the catalog (for example, SLPL government documents), that total is 5,618,282.
	The 2024 SLCL Black History Celebration features a star-studded line up of exciting speakers, entertainers, exhibits and various programs.  The 2024 theme is African American Arts:  Inspiring, Impacting, and Influencing Every Generation.  The Black History Committee, which includes Sandy Williams, Brenda West Ammons, Cindy Fehmel, C.J. Hall, Janelle Turner, Crystal Harris, Carla Maxwell, Nakisha Ford and Jocelyn Moore have planned a fantastic month of programming in February.  The branches are also presenting an incredible line-up of programs.
	The kick-off of the celebration will feature Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, author of “Chain-Gang All-Stars.” This event will be held at 7 p.m., January 31 at the Emerson Auditorium at Washington University.
		Story Time and Dessert Tasting with Teen Author Chef Tamia will take place Wednesday, Feb. 7, at 6:30 p.m.  at Lewis & Clark “Mia Dreams Bigger” is the title of her new book. This is St. Louis’ very own Kidpreneur Chef Tamia. She will answer questions about how she started her business “Mia’s Treats Delight.”
		Ayesha Rascoe, author of “HBCU Made,” will give a lecture on Thursday, February 8, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., at the Ethical Society of St. Louis. This is in partnership with Harris Stowe State University and St. Louis Public Radio. A private reception will precede the lecture.  Mr. Ron Himes, Founder and Producing Director of the St. Louis Black Repertory Company, will receive the Frankie Freeman Inspirational Award that evening.
		Set the Night to Music will be held Friday, February 9, at FV.  It will feature Dana Austin and Plush Band. The event begins at 7 p.m. and refreshments will be served.
		The Frankie Freeman Lecturer is Joy-Ann Reid, host of MSNBC’s the ReidOut.  Ms. Reid will discuss her much anticipated book, “Medgar and Myrlie: Medgar Evers and the Love Story that Awakened America.”  It will be held Saturday, February 10, 7:00 p.m. at Shalom Church in Florissant. Nine PBS producer Carol Daniel will be in conversation with Ms. Reid.
		Dr. Uche Blackstock, author of “Legacy: A Black Physician Reckons with Racism in Medicine,” will give a talk on Thursday, February 15, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. at Florissant Valley Branch.
		A Black History Celebration Film Festival featuring accomplished local film makers and community experts will take place Friday, Feb. 16th at 1 p.m. and Saturday, Feb. 17th at 10 a.m. at the Florissant Valley Branch. Films include: “The One and Only Dick Gregory; “One Night in Miami; “Devotion” and “Summer of Soul.” These are for adults and registration is recommended.
		Billy Dee Williams the Library’s celebrity featured author will discuss his new book titled, “What Have We Here?” on Tuesday, February 20, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., at the Skip Viragh Center for the Arts at Chaminade. KSDK News Anchor Rene Knot will be the moderator.
		The Black Rep will perform “Race in America: Past, Present and Future,” Wed., Feb. 21 at 7 p.m. at Lewis & Clark Branch and will perform “When the Rattlesnake Sounds,” Saturday, March 2 at noon at Florissant Valley Branch.
		Gold medalist and WNBA champion A’Ja Wilson will discuss her new book, “Dear Black Girls: How to Be True to You,” Thursday, Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. at the Ethical Society.
		The month will conclude its highlighted events with “Gift of Gospel,” on Saturday, February 24, 1-3 p.m. at Florissant Valley Branch. Janette Chandler Kotey will be the featured soloist along with the COGIC Missouri Eastern First Jurisdiction combined Youth Choir, Myles Lacey and Robert Johnson. Pastor Shaun Williams is the emcee.
		Throughout February, patrons are encouraged to participate in Search St. Louis for Black Historical Sites. At each visit they are to scan the QR code and upload photos of themselves. Each visit gives them the chance to win raffle tickets to the Griot Museum or Blues Museum in St. Louis. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a)
Dr. Beckwith congratulated Sandy Williams and the Black History Celebration Committee for an excellent job in coordinating the Black History Programs.
	Ms. Sorth said that Weber Road and several other branches are visited by dozens of teens after school each day.  It can be challenging for Library employees to observe and correct the teens’ inappropriate behavior during the after school rush. Weber Road Branch will be filling one of their part-time vacancies with a new type of position that is focused on building relationships and supporting student needs in after school hours. This person will be solely focused on encouraging positive teen engagement and behavior during their visits between 2:00-6:00 p.m.  The position will include some aspects of the traditional role of Library Associates along with some of the objectives of the Public Safety Specialist role.  If this position proves effective, it may be expanded to other locations that have large numbers of teens in the afterschool hours. (Plan: Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1, 1c)
Ted Sanditz asked about the behavior of teens at Weber Road since the police are no longer there. Ms. Sorth responded that the volume of teens has increased. She explained that this is because there aren't many places to go that are open.
	Four Library employees applied for and were selected by the Public Library Association (PLA) to receive scholarships that pay the majority of expenses to attend the 2024 PLA Conference in Columbus, Ohio. The four employees selected are Lana Delf (Library Associate in Acquisitions), Lindy Baudendistel (Library Associate in ILL), Jess Huffman (Librarian in Reference), and Brent Trout (Manager, H&G). Congratulations to all four! (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, Sense of Community 2d)
	The Library was notified by the FCC that the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) was coming to an end with its final application being processed on February 7, 2024.  ACP allowed lower income households access to a greatly reduced rate to have broadband connection.  The Library partnered with several organizations to promote awareness of this resource in addition to inserting information about the ACP program in its circulating hotspots. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3a)
	The Library will be expanding the Library of Things Collection to include two new music-related items: Drum Practice Pads and Rhythm Kits.  Drum practice pads are small, portable pads used by students in lieu of a drum kit. The practice pads mimic the feel and response of a drum skin, offering a realistic, yet quiet playing experience. The second music-related items that will soon be available for checkout are Rhythm Kits. These kits contain a variety of fun percussion instruments aimed toward a preschool audience. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	On Saturday, February 3, all branches will be celebrating Take Your Child to the Library Day by hosting various activities such as Scavenger Hunts. Several branches will receive a visit from Jasper Rabbit, the star of the popular “Creepy Tales!” series by Aaron Reynolds. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Increase Access 1c)
	The Library hosted a table at Winter Warm Up last weekend giving out Winter Warm Up 2024 buttons and providing brochures on library programs and resources.  The Youth Services Department visited with over 700 attendees. (Plan: Sense of Community 2a, 2c, 2d)
	The Library was selected by the American Library Association to receive programming kits to offer financial education classes to children aged 3-12 in late 2024 and 2025. Thinking Money for Kids, an initiative of the American Library Association (ALA) and the FINRA Investor Education Foundation, strives to teach children and their parents, caregivers and educators about financial topics in a way that is both meaningful and fun.  Nearly 600 libraries applied and only 200 were selected. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth announced that Overall attendance for Adult Services programs in 2023 more than doubled in comparison to 2022. The Department planned almost 600 programs last year. The average attendance for in-person programs increased by 100% in 2023. Also, virtual programming is still going strong. The number of programs with attendance over 100 increased from 25 in 2022 to 37 in 2023, with 29 of those being virtual programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	Starting next month, patrons can take a shuttle from the Florissant Valley Branch to the Repertory Theatre of St. Louis in order to enjoy “Moby Dick” on Sunday, February 18th and “August: Osage County” on Sunday, April 7th. Patrons must still reserve tickets through The Rep, but the shuttle is provided for free thanks to The Rep and the Library Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3c)
	The Library is partnering with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra to provide 3,000 free ticket vouchers to our patrons. Each bookmark voucher can be used for two tickets to a classical concert or four tickets to a family concert. Patrons will pick up a bookmark at the circulation desk at their local branch and call the number on it to reserve their tickets, trading the bookmark in for tickets at the Symphony's box office. We are thrilled to offer these vouchers to our patrons. The Library has received a significant amount of media related to this partnership. In addition, the Symphony is also offering free tickets to Library employees. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	Personalized Reading is a form-based Readers Advisory service that the Library has offered since 2013. Patrons fill out a form on the website stating what kind of books they've enjoyed, and Sarah Steele and Harry Charles in Adult Services create a list of five titles that the patrons may enjoy. The service has been improved periodically to reflect patron feedback, changes in technology, and research into Readers Advisory best practices. In over a decade of offering this service, the Library has sent more than 2,700 Personalized Reading and reached a new milestone in 2023, surpassing 400 lists during the year for the first time.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b)
	Ms. Sorth said The Tap In Center has been selected as a recipient of the 2024 Criminal Justice Agency or Non-Profit Organization Leadership and Innovation Award by the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. This award recognizes a criminal justice agency or non-profit organization whose work has had a direct, positive, and significant effect on the criminal justice system, with a commitment to improving the criminal justice system. The Tap In Center will receive the award during the ACJS annual meeting in Chicago in March. Justice Services Specialist Miranda Gibson will be in attendance. Last year, the Tap In Center was also recognized at the local and national level: 2023 Achievement Award - Best in Category, Criminal Justice and Public Safety, and 2023 What’s Right with the Region Award in the Emerging Initiatives category, and 2023 Community Development Leadership Award from North County, Inc. The success of the Tap In Center has sparked other communities to create their own Tap In Center program. The Kansas City Public Library reached out to us for advice. In July 2023, the Kansas City Public Library partnered with the Kansas City Public Defender's Office, the Jackson County Prosecuting Attorney's Office, the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law, and the Clear My Record Project to launch the KC Tap In Center. After hearing about our Tap In Center program during the National Association of Counties CORE Justice Network conference in May 2023, county commissioners from Franklin County, Ohio, were interested in starting their own Tap In Center in the Columbus area. Miranda Gibson met with their justice policy team to guide the creation of the program and presented to the County Board of Commissioners about the success of the St. Louis County program. Recently, criminal justice stakeholders in Cincinnati, Ohio, reached out to the St. Louis County Tap In Center team for guidance in starting their own program. With The Bail Project, the Public Defender's Office, and a judge championing the reform, they are hopeful to launch a Tap In Center program in the Cincinnati area this year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	Over 1,000 people applied to participate in H&G’s first ever Genealogy University. Thirty applicants were randomly selected to participate in the program from January-March. Participants will be required to attend any four History & Genealogy programs and will receive a free MyHeritage DNA test kit upon program completion. Genealogy University was funded by the St. Louis County Library Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, 3d, Increase Access 2c)
	Treehouse was added to the Library’s resource offerings at the beginning of the year. Treehouse is an online learning platform that teaches coding and web development skills, such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. This resource is geared towards adults and teens, but could be useful to pre-teens that have been exposed to coding. There are 80 slots available at any given time for the public. Patrons will be rotated out of Treehouse if they are inactive for a period of three or more weeks so other patrons can join. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	We continue to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c)
Totals 2021 to Current (as of 1/17/2024)
Totals Year End, 2023 only
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are shared. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures from various events and programs were shown that have taken place over the last month including: Intellectual Artist at Lewis & Clark, Lap Time at Mid-County, Author Gordon Korman at Grant’s View, After School Meals at Weber Road, Author Amanda Doyle at Grant’s View, Family Tower Building at Meramec Valley, Jazz Jam at Lewis & Clark, and Printmaking Workshop at Daniel Boone.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
	Feedback from an employee: “James has been incarcerated. 14 years. He needs help to get his life back on track. This evening he walked up to me and said Katie did some things. She came through for him. I've known James since he was about 8. I know his family. Got some history when we lived in Bel-Nor. He's 33 now. This library is his hangout. I introduced him to Katie. That's all. She went to work. Listened. Hooked him up with resources. He now has the beginnings of a smile in his soul. A place to call home. An address. A bicycle. I will say very guardedly, I have mixed emotions about social workers. Necessary in these turbulent times. James needs an ear to hear him. Someone he can trust. Doors to be opened. I don't know what the future holds as far as long term, long range outcome. Recidivism is high. But I do know the face of hope. Katie has a hard job. Case loads are massive on many. She can't wave a magic wand and recapture what prison took away. James expressed gratitude tonight. Prison is a traumatizing place. Trusting people again is difficult. Not the first young man caught up in the system. Not the only one I personally know. Just want to express to you Katie is making a difference at this branch. James said so.” (Plan: Sense of Community 3c)
	From a patron: “During the past year I have complained a couple of times about how noisy the library is.  Today I want to give a compliment to the security guard (public safety specialist.)  I was working/reading for approx. 4-5 hours and the library was very quiet.  The security guard did a very good job of controlling things.  She should be commended for her work.” (Plan: Increase Access 1)
	From a patron:  “Good Morning Ms. Sorth!  I compose this letter as a way of offering support.  I am a member of a local African American Book Club that was organized in May of 1907. Over the next two years we are reviewing “Black Classics” in our reading efforts.  We recognize that our past is truly repeating itself.  As such, we are making an honest effort to never forget our past as we work to support our future . . . We began to have discussions on how we might offer support to efforts you might already have in place to foster active reading and the push-back on removing books from organizations.  If there’s some way we might lend assistance, please don’t hesitate to reach out to me.  We would be happy to support your efforts in any way we can.” (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said that annually, the Library receives most of the cash from property taxes early in the year. To maximize the amount of interest received, Library Administration issues a request for investment rate quotes from several area financial institutions. The financial institution that submits the highest yield for the total portfolio of investments is awarded the dollars to invest. In December 2023, the Board authorized the Library to select the financial institution that submitted the quote for the highest yield for the investment portfolio. We had two responses and First Bank was selected with a rate of 4.94%. (Plan: Promote Literacy, Sense of Community, Increase Access)
	The Administrative Team (Kristen Sorth, Jennifer Gibson, Jackie Hamilton, Steve Hunter, Jennifer McBride, Laura Taylor, Gib Van Cleve and Eric Button), will be making visits to branches and departments during 2024. Each administrator will visit a total of 9 branches/departments over the course of the year. Visits will be 2-4 hours. Every branch or department will have a total of two administrator visits, but they will be at separate times. These visits have many objectives including:
		Providing an opportunity for employees to meet each administrator and for administrators to engage with many of our employees
		Broadening an understanding of the role and function of each branch and department
		Gaining firsthand knowledge of library services and how they are delivered to our patrons
		Better understanding the challenges faced by branches and departments (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1d, Increase Access 1, 2c)
	Congratulations to the new class of the Staff Development Cohort. The 10-month program focuses on understanding the foundations of library operations, materials, resources, and services. Employees will learn from departments and participate in experiential learning to further their personal and professional development to make greater contributions to the Library and the St. Louis region.
		Austin Krueger, Library Associate, Oak Bend Branch
		Isabella Marcallini, Marketing Assistant, Communications Department
		Jared Hamline, Library Associate, Bookmobile and Mobile Services
		Kathryn Altman, Library Associate, Clark Family Branch
		Kelsey Roberts, Library Associate, Cliff Cave Branch
		Madison Ravenscraft, Library Associate, Prairie Commons Branch
		Marianne Atkinson, Library Associate, Weber Road Branch
		Miriam Frenchie, Library Associate, Thornhill Branch
		Sarah Kuchenmeister, Library Associate, Mid-County branch
		Sierra Williams, Public Safety Specialist, Administration Department (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	Communications created a Black History Month brochure featuring a cover illustration by designer Tay Tuteur that drew inspiration from artists Alma Thompson, Kehinde Wiley, and Jean-Michel Basquiat. Additional promotions include eBlasts, social media posts, a dedicated webpage, a ½ page ad in the MLK insert of the St. Louis American, weekly GO! ads in the Friday Post-Dispatch, and ads on St. Louis Public Radio. Communications is working on a logo for the new joint summer reading program between SLCL and SLPL. The SLCL team will be creating all of the print materials to be used by both library systems. Communications is working on a new landing page for the History & Genealogy Department. The page will look like other landing pages on the site and will include buttons at the top of the page for easy navigation, quick links, collection highlights and a news section. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 2d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	The new KTRS Book Club with Jennifer & Wendy started the first week of January. Each week features a 10-minute interview with an author who will be appearing at the Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
Library Construction and Facility Update
	Ms. Sorth said that cold weather last week caused maintenance issues in a few branches. Samuel Sachs, Florissant Valley, and Cliff Cave all had frozen water pipes. Fortunately, only Cliff Cave’s pipes actually broke. The branch was closed for a few hours over two days while repairs were made. Prairie Commons had a problem with a natural gas regulator and was without heat for a few hours on Sunday the 14th when the high outside temperature was zero. Building Systems caught the problem and was able to get it corrected before any damage was done. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation
	Communications created a new look for the Foundation Newsletter. The first edition with the new design will arrive in February. Other materials, including brochures and eBlast templates, will also be updated to correspond with the new look. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c)
	The Foundation’s Fall Appeal was mailed at the beginning of November. The Foundation received 298 gifts with donations over $56,000. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	The Foundation received $650 from a last minute holiday shopping event at Kendra Scott where the Foundation received a portion of the sales. (Plan: Increase Access 2a)
	She also said that the following grant was awarded:
		The Library received a $48,000 Library Services & Technology Act grant from the State Library to support a joint Summer Reading Club with St. Louis Public Library. The grant will support a huge kickoff event in Forest Park, a OneRead program at the Juvenile Detention Center, exciting performers for all ages at SLCL and SLPL, and digital marketing efforts. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 2d, 3a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
She mentioned the following author events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, author of “Chain Gang All-Stars” - finalist for the National Book Award - Presented in partnership with SLCL’s Black History Celebration and Washington University’s Arts and Sciences Jan 31, 7 pm -Washington University’s Knight Conference Center/Emerson Auditorium -
	Alan Gratz discusses “Heroes: A Novel of Pearl Harbor” - Ticketed Event, Feb 12, 6:30 pm - JCC’s Mirowitz Performing Arts Center - Popular middle grade historical fiction author.
	Alex Michaelides, author of “The Fury,” Tuesday, February 13, 7:00 pm - Ethical Society of St. Louis.   SOLD OUT TICKETED EVENT
	Gregg Hurwitz, author of “The Lone Wolf: An Orphan X Novel,” Thursday, February 15, 7:00 - Daniel Boone Branch.
	 Novelist Yangsze Choo, author of “The Fox Wife” Tuesday, February 20, 7:00 pm - Grant’s View Branch.
	Steve Berry, author of “The Atlas Maneuver,” Wednesday, February 21, 7:00 pm - Daniel Boone Branch.
	Pulitzer Prize-winning St. Louis Post Dispatch Columnist Tony Messenger, author of “Profit and Punishment: How America Criminalizes the Poor in the Name of Justice,” Thursday, February 29, 7:00 pm - JCC - Mirowitz Performing Arts Center.
	RuPaul will be discussing his memoir “The House of Hidden Meanings.”  On Monday, March 11, 7:00 pm. at the Pageant.
NEW BUSINESS
AUTHOR EVENTS
Carrie Robb, Manager, Library Author Series, reported that SLCL is one of the largest and most successful author series in the country. Ms. Robb thanked the Board for their support of author events. She said the mission of her department is to foster and bring together the bond between readers and authors. She said all of the marketing of the Library’s events are produced in house. She said last year, the Library hosted 145 authors. Next year we plan to have even more. The Foundation sponsors all of the library’s events. Carrie mentioned that for $90 a year, a Library Friend gets 2 reserved seats at author events. They also get advanced sales notification.
There are four series: Favorite Author Series, Westfall (politics and history) Series, Medical Series, & Reading Garden Series. Several other events include the Teen Book Festival and Black History Celebration. Ms. Robb said she feels this is the best line up we've ever had.
The Library hosts authors that are on publishing tours. Ms. Robb writes proposals to offer to host. She said she partners with Novel neighbor, Eye See Me and Left Bank Books. We have strengthened events with partners and increased our following in the last few years.
Ted Sanditz congratulated Carrie and Deborah Patterson did as well. Ms. Patterson said the authors are such a gift to our community. Dr. Beckwith also congratulated her and her team.
Joan Barry said there are so many authors to choose from.
JUSTICE SERVICES
Kristen introduced Miranda Gibson, the new Justice Services Specialist in Adult Services. She has a background in criminal justice. Miranda originally reached out to the Library regarding the Tap in Center in 2020. Ms. Gibson said the Library team was eager to work with her and the team and to date they have served over 1100 people and recalled many warrants. She looks forward to expanding the TAP in Center.
Dr. Beckwith said he believes the mission of the library has changed over the years. Now Miranda’s work is part of our core mission. Deborah Patterson said we are leading the way and she appreciates us touching the community.
CONSTRUCTION UPDATE
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, showed the latest pictures of Clark Family Branch. There were pictures of two of the 18 private study rooms. He showed the restrooms full installation and the glass surrounding the area near the History & Genealogy department.  He also showed the small business area. The plans are for early June to open.
The room with the unique ceiling is the event space location. Each has a one inch drop.
Deborah Patterson inquired about acoustics. Mr. Hunter answered that it was balanced with the ceiling, wall and carpet. The sound will be projected through speakers and will be balanced.
TRASH AND RECYCLING PICKUP
Steve Hunter reported that on January 2, 2024, Library Administration issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) for Trash and Recycling Pickup at all Library locations. The bid was posted on the SLCL website and directly e-mailed to five local firms that identified as providing this service. Responses were due January 16, 2024. Two firms responded.
			Firm
			Three-year Cost
			Republic Services
			$122,985.96
			Meridian Waste
			$193,953.00
Republic’s price includes year one at 37,155.88, year two at 40,871.47, and year three at 44,958.61.
The responses were reviewed by Steve Hunter, Kelli Reeves (Manager, Facilities) and Brett Boling (Manager, Custodial Services). It was determined that Republic Services submitted the lowest and best bid for the work. Republic is the current provider of this service and we are satisfied with their work.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Republic Services to provide three-year Trash and Recycling Pickup services to the Library District at all locations for the three-year total cost of $122,985.96, and that it authorize the Director & CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Sanditz).
MSD CONSTRUCTION AND TEMPORARY USE EASEMENTS AT DANIEL BOONE BRANCH
Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, reported that MSD is planning a large sewer improvement project that they are routing around the Daniel Boone Branch. MSD plans to install large underground structures along the south and east side of the Daniel Boone property. Work will begin later this spring and extend through much of the summer. The south lot’s entrance will be unavailable for part of the time, although most of the lot will remain available by entering from the north and driving around the building. It is expected that daily library operations will not be impacted.
MSD’s original proposal involved removing all existing trees along the south and east property lines, and offered compensation of $61,500. Administration met with MSD representatives and negotiated a solution that is better for the district. Unfortunately the large trees along Clarkson Drive will be removed as part of the work, but the southern trees will be protected and MSD will now compensate the district $135,000.
The agreement letter was shared.
Administration recommends the Library Board approve the Construction and Temporary Use Easement at the Daniel Boone Branch and that it authorize the Director and CEO to execute said agreement. The Library Board approved (Patterson/Barry).
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SUMMER READING ADVENTURE
Eric Button, Deputy Director, said that Library Administration is seeking approval of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to describe the cost-sharing arrangement for expenses related to the joint Summer Reading Adventure program, which is launching in the summer of 2024 between St. Louis County Library (SLCL) and St. Louis Public Library (SLPL).
The two library districts are entering into a collaborative summer reading program called Summer Reading Adventure (SRA).  This program will feature shared objectives, activities, and rewards for participation in the SRA.  SLCL will incur all of the initial expenses for bulk ordering, printing, and marketing expenses in order to gain cost efficiencies. SLPL will then reimburse SLCL according to terms of this MOU.  Many of the expenses associated with the SRA will be covered through a $48,000 grant from the State Library received by SLCL to benefit this program for both libraries.
The MOU was drafted by Lashly Baer after both libraries agreed to this process since Lashly Baer serves as legal counsel for both library districts.
Dr. Beckwith inquired about the total cost. Mr. Button said it would be approximately 260k. He said SLCL and SLPL will have a lesser cost because they can buy in bulk and market together. Patrons will have the same experience at both systems.
Library Administration recommends that the Board authorizes the Library Director and CEO to enter into and execute the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with St. Louis Public Library pertaining to expenses associated with the Summer Reading Adventure. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Sanditz).
MOTION TO ADJOURN MEETING
Dr. Beckwith thanked Kristen Sorth for putting the safety of staff and Board first by having the Library Meeting on ZOOM due to the icy inclement weather. The meeting adjourned at 4:52 p.m. with a motion by Deborah Patterson and a second by Johnny Wang.  All voted in the affirmative.
Respectfully submitted,
___________________________                                                      _________________
Board Secretary                                                                                  Date