{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "CYRU7S7AB126",
  "date": "2024-06-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, JUNE 17, 2024
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63146 on Monday, June  17, 2024 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, President
Johnny Wang, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Deborah Patterson, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Steve Hunter, Assistant Director, Operations; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; and Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Desiree Whitlock, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Amy Gibbons, Carrie Robb, Amy Hanaway, Mary Arnhart, Stephanie Nordmann, Megan Phifer Davis, Sarah Brown, Rachel Dippel, Addie Chow, Kalin Preston, Andrew Schula, Trista Doyle, Annie Fuller, Lisa Haddox, Miriam Whatley, Nora Marino, Janet Katz, Nicole Brown, Andrea Carter, Alaina Culbertson, Melisa Bauer, Kelli Reeves, Chasidy Allen, Anna Schurk, Michelle Hawkins, Andrea Johnson, Eve Amailuk, Emily Althoff, Will LaChance, Stacy Berger, Crystal Harris, Sarah Wood, Jamel McCaine, Nina Johnston, Anne Bradley, Allison Wisniewski and Sandy Williams.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved of the June 2024 Library Board minutes (Wang/Patterson).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Patron Janet Katz, appeared before the Board to discuss certain ebooks having a long waiting list.
TREASURER’S REPORT
Laura Taylor gave the April and May Reports.
April 2024
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $51.3 million which is 80% of the total budget of $63.9 million. The District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	Current Year Interest - The total interest revenue for 2024 is $809,111 which is 29% of the total budget of $2.8 million.
Expense
	Collection Maintenance Software - In April, the Library District incurred a total of $69,685 in Collection Maintenance Software. Of this amount, $56,849 was paid to Innovative Interfaces, Inc. for access to Vega Discover, Vega Program, and the mobile app through March 2025.
	Reading Clubs - In April, the Library District incurred a total of $61,114 in Reading Clubs. Of this amount, $47,663 was paid to Booksource for prize books. STL Summer Adventure for youth ages 0-17 and the Adult Summer Reading Club run from June 1-August 10.
	Capital Improvements - In April, the Library District incurred a total of $2,032,753 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $1,523,279 was paid to Interior Construction Services for March services and $311,401 was paid to Datum Filing Systems for the installation of high density shelving at the Clark Family Branch. The Clark Family Branch opens to the public on July 9.
The Library Board of the April Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Barry/Patterson).
May 2024
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $62.7 million which is 98% of the total budget of $63.9 million. The District will continue to receive tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Aid - In May, the Library District received a Missouri State Aid payment of $307,811. This was the second of two payments for St. Louis County’s 2024 fiscal year. The first payment for St. Louis County’s 2025 fiscal year is expected in November. The Library District budgeted $616,000 in 2024 for Missouri State Aid.
	State Grants - In May, the Library District received $40,534 in State Grants. Of this amount, $16,534 was received as the third and final payment for the History & Genealogy Digital Imaging Grant and $24,000 as the first of two payments for the Summer Library Program Grant.
Expense
	Reading Clubs - In May, the Library District incurred a total of $95,257 in Reading Clubs. Of this amount, $25,747 was paid to Book Depot, $24,152 to Baker & Taylor, and $20,561 to 4Imprint for various prizes. STL Summer Adventure for youth ages 0-17 and the Adult Summer Reading Club run from June 1-August 10.
	Capital Improvements - In May, the Library District incurred a total of $2,949,320 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $1,666,624 was paid to Interior Construction Services for April services and $1,062,429 to CI Select for furniture at the Clark Family Branch. The Clark Family Branch opens to the public on July 9.
The Library Board approved of the May Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Wang/Barry).
DIRECTOR AND CEO’S REPORT
Kristen Sorth announced that Steve Hunter, Assistant Director of Operations, did not have a report today because the Clark Family Branch would be opening on July 9th.  She further mentioned that Steve Hunter had been with the Library for 10 years.  He accepted the position of overseeing the remodeling and building of the branches associated with the Your Library Renewed Campaign. He successfully completed the job and announced his plans to retire in July.  Kristen led the Library in applauding him for his work. She also announced that her executive Assistant Sandy Williams also planned to retire in August and applauded her services.
Library Update
Ms. Sorth shared the Dashboard reports for April and May. Circulation for the month of April increased 4.2% over total circulation in April, 2023 and increased by 2% in May of this year. In May, patrons placed 48,986 holds on library materials. There are currently 16,905 items in the branches on hold for patrons. The title with the highest holds queue is “The Women” by Kristin Hannah with 1,413 holds. On April’s Dashboard, there is a chart that compares physical checkouts by hour vs. eMedia checkouts by hour of the day. The busiest hour for in-library checkouts is between 11:00 a.m. and noon. The busiest time for eMedia checkouts is between 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. May’s Dashboard includes a chart to illustrate the increase in patrons served by social workers. From May, 2023 through May, 2024, 1,533 patrons were assisted by social workers. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3a, Increase Access 1c)
· Ms. Sorth announced a press conference at Lambert International Airport at 10:00 a.m. on June 20th to announce the ePopUp Library partnership. This collection of eBooks and Audiobooks will launch on that day in partnership with Bi-State, St. Louis County Government, St. Louis Lambert International Airport, and Schnucks. The program offers easy access to patrons even if they do not have a library card. A user merely scans the QR code, provides their email address and chooses a password. After that, they can select materials and borrow them immediately without any waiting. This collection removes many of the barriers associated with borrowing eBooks, and we hope that we will reach many new library users as a result. This eMedia collection is funded by the Clark Family’s gift to support Library programs and services. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2d, Sense of Community 2a, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
· MOBIUS lending and borrowing is scheduled to resume on Wednesday, June 12. Patrons will once again have access to a catalog of 30 million items from 78 member libraries. The restart date, originally scheduled for May 22, was moved back to facilitate additional testing with the new software. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
· This year’s Adult Summer Reading Club is underway. In the first week of the program, almost 3,500 adults have registered. This summer’s Adult Reading Club in-person and virtual programs include partners such as St. Louis Audubon Society, Craft Academy, Vitality in Motion, Trailnet, National Park Service, Decoding Cocktails, and more. Adult Services has also planned many special events, including a summer concert series in the garden at the Sachs Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 3b, 3d, Increase Access 1b)
· The Library has added two new items to the “Library of Things” for patrons to borrow from the collection. In May, the Library began offering Graphing Calculator kits. The kit includes a T1- 84 Plus Calculator, start guide and case. On June 1, Memory Kits became available to patrons. These kits help adults keep their minds active. Each kit contains books and interactive activities around various topics such as travel, sports, birds, etc. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3b, 3c)
· On Saturday, June 1 the Library kicked off STL Summer Adventure with a fun filled day at Forest Park. St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library joined forces with Play Day in the Park this year to celebrate the importance of play and to jumpstart STL Summer Adventure. The libraries hosted a large tent where families could sign up for STL Summer Adventure and the kids could pick up their free book. We also provided sensory tables, button making and giant building blocks. Thanks to the State Library LSTA grant, we were able to bring Show Me Dinosaurs to the event so attendees could interact with the dinosaurs and experience dig boxes. Throughout the day, over 1,500 people visited the tent, which resulted in 773 registrations for STL Summer Adventure. We were able to celebrate the partnership in May with a fun event at St. Louis Public Library where the new City SC Library Card was also unveiled. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2a, 2b, 2d, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
· Applications for the paid Sidney Johnson Internship were accepted during March. This year, the Library received 358 applications. Four interns were selected. The interns will be attending the July Board Meeting.
	Bennie Schumach will be a junior at Crossroads Preparatory College in the fall. Bennie has previously attended Bayless High School.
	Michael Pina will be a junior at DeSmet Jesuit High School in the fall.
	Thaddeus Pierson will be a junior at Westminster Christian Academy in the fall. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 1c)
· Justice Services Specialist Miranda Gibson recently confirmed that the Bookmobiles & Mobile Services department has been delivering donated items to the jail since 2018. They deliver 30-50 items each visit (every other week). In total, they have delivered 13,637 items to the jail. The segregation units get the most use out of the books because they do not have access to a tablet. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 1a, 2a, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
· The Library is partnering with the Missouri Eastern Correctional Center to provide library cards for incarcerated residents at the MECC upon their release to the St. Louis area. MECC staff will apply for a library card on behalf of a resident who is nearing their release date. SLCL will create a card and mail it to the facility, along with a welcome folder with information about our justice-involved services, social workers, educational opportunities, job seeking and small business resources, and various community resources. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
· From January - May, Library employees have worked with Aging Ahead to share monthly presentations to hundreds of GrandPad users. The total attendance for the presentations surpassed 525. Topics included Find Your Next Great Read, Missouri River Runner, Foods of St. Louis, Beginning Genealogy Research, and Build Your Tech Confidence. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 3a)
· For the second year, the Library participated in the Earth Day Festival in Forest Park in April and interacted with over 1,000 people during the course of the weekend. (Plan: Sense of Community 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, Increase Access 2c)
· The Library is partnering with the Sheldon for a Musical Instrument Donation Drive. Donated musical instruments will be accepted at any branch from June 24 - July 9. All donated instruments will be delivered to the Sheldon, assessed for condition and repaired before being donated to local schools or community music programs. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
· Starting at 5:00 p.m. on August 30, the Adult Services Department and the Florissant Valley Branch will host the Library’s 2nd Annual Hip Hop Block Party in Bangert Park. The Florissant Valley Branch will close at 4:00 p.m., one hour earlier than normal to prepare for the event. The Library hosted a Hip Hop Block Party last year as part of the partnership with St. Louis Art Museum. This year, the event will feature DJs, a graffiti wall, the bubble bus, food trucks, and lots of other family friendly activities. There were over 2,100 people in attendance last year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, Increase Access 1b)
· The 2nd annual Small Business Launchpad applications were open for the whole month of May. Sixty-four people applied this year and twelve participants will be chosen. This program will end in a pitch event similar to the Encore Entrepreneurs program where a generous donation from the Clark Family will provide funding to the winners. The St. Louis Port Authority also awarded this program a grant to purchase laptops for the participants. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a. 3b. 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b)
· St. Louis County Library and Operation Food Search will provide lunches to children this summer at nine branches starting on June 3. Participating branches will offer a nutritious lunch along with activities for kids from 12:00–1:00 p.m., Monday–Friday. Meals will be available free of charge for children ages 18 and under. Pizza will be provided on Fridays. The summer lunch program will be offered at the following branches: Bridgeton Trails, Florissant Valley, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Parkview, Prairie Commons, Rock Road and Weber Road. The Library and Operation Food Search have partnered for several years to address food insecurity in the region. Last year SLCL & OFS distributed over 43,000 meals, which are funded through the USDA’s Summer Food Service Program and coordinated by Operation Food Search. SLCL provides complementary activities such as board games, crafts and story times during and after the lunch hour. Teen library volunteers help with the program. Information about STL Summer Adventure and how to obtain a library card will also be presented during the free lunch meal times. Additional support for the summer lunch program is provided by the St. Louis County Library Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
· The Library is celebrating LGBTQ+ Pride Month with special programming throughout June. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b, Increase Access 1c)
· The first Empowering Encore Entrepreneurs program was a resounding success! The group of eight aspiring entrepreneurs aged 55+ graduated from the ideation phase to the launch of their individual businesses. The inaugural founders completed eight weeks of business programming, which culminated in a pitch competition on May 21. Thanks to sponsorship by the Clark Family, four individuals walked away with starter capital for their business. o 1st prize - $5000 to Kaonis Thomas, Founder of Kaonis Fine Arts o 2nd prize - $3000 to Katrina Jones, Founder of Designing Women Studios o 3rd prize - $2000 to Kim Powell, Founder of Epic Designs o Audience Choice - $1300 to Sandy Budde, Founder of Garden Budde (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1b)
· Twenty-five schools will receive summer bookmobile service in June. Each school receives a weekly visit in June. Students receiving bookmobile visits will be entertained by fun themes on each vehicle: BKM 11’s theme is Under the Sea, BKM 12’s theme is Ice Cream, BKM 13’s theme is The 70’s and BKM 14’s theme is the movie Up. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2a)
· The Library continues to provide vital services to the region shown on the chart below. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1, 1c) Service Stats 2021 to Current: only:
Service Stats 2024
· There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
· Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last two months: , Bookmobile Outreach at Combs Intermediate, Bookmobile Outreach at Third, Community Autism Expo at Florissant Valley, Robot Rally at Grand Glaize, Baby Art Crawl at Oak Bend, Egg Drop Challenge at Oak Bend, author Amor Towles at the Skip, author Erik Larson at the Touhill Star Wars Fan Fest at Grant’s View, Donor Appreciation Breakfast at Grant’s View, Empowering Encore Entrepreneurs at Thornhill, authors Michael McDonald and Paul Reiser at the Pageant, author Darius Rucker at Clark Family Branch, Play Day in the Park, author Craig Johnson at Clark Family, the Circus Man’s Circus Show at Sachs, and author Amy Tan at Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c) Impact Stories
· We just had someone ask to speak to the manager. A woman in her late 70s walking with a cane told me, "I just wanted to thank you for the Pride display. It means a lot to me. I've waited a long time for this. The children's books are especially terrific. Thank you. Thank you. “She had tears in her eyes. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 1b, 3b)
· A mother mentioned her son was very upset when he heard they weren't starting their day at the library. Their plans soon changed and they did start their day at the library. And he said he would like to start EVERYDAY at the library because he loves it that much. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
· "Ya'll found something and nailed it! I could feel the energy as soon as I walked in the building!" - A patron said this about the "Gaming @ the Library" event with the BGG Foundation. She was delighted to see all the kids hanging out and having a great time. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
· During a popup story time, our youth librarian hosted to keep our smallest patrons safe and entertained during a tornado warning, I overheard a patron tell her child, "If you have to get stuck somewhere, the library is the very best place to be stuck." (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Increase Access 1c)
· "The Adult Services and Reference departments hosted a meeting for parole officers who work with people incarcerated at the Missouri Eastern Correctional Center in Pacific, MO. We shared all kinds of in person and online resources that the Library has to offer for people returning to the St. Louis area. They were shocked by all of the resources, programs, and services that are available. One parole officer emailed her thanks: “Thank you SO much for hosting us. We are still all a little speechless from all the great information we were given.” (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3b, Increase Access 2d) Library Administrative Updates
· Multiple DEIB (diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging) initiatives for employees are in progress after Hicks-Carter-Hicks shared recommendations from their assessment of DEIB at the Library. Later this month, the Library will issue an RFQ for DEIB Training Services to provide training to all of our employees and managers. After selecting a qualified firm, training sessions will begin later in 2024 and will continue into 2025. In July, employees will be able to apply to join the Library’s first DEIB Council. The 9-13 person Council will be led by Co-Chairs Jennifer Gibson and Tarza Tawfiq with Kristen Sorth as the Executive Sponsor. After brief interviews in August, the selected Council members will begin meeting in September. Any employee in good standing is eligible and encouraged to apply. After establishing a charter and other foundational work, the DEIB Council's first task will be to help launch Employee Resource Groups, also known as, affinity groups, to provide community and support around shared interests, identities, or backgrounds. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 1c, 1d, Increase Access 1c)
· Ms. Sorth announced that Steve Hunter, the Assistant Director of Operations, is going to retire at the end of July. When he took this job with the Library ten years ago, Steve told her that he would be here until Your Library Renewed was complete and then he was riding off into the sunset to enjoy his SECOND retirement. On July 9, Clark Family opens and Steve will retire officially at the end of July to spend his time traveling with his lovely wife, Darcy, babysitting his sweet granddaughters, playing with his dog Piper, having a few cocktails, eating good food, and gardening. Steve is one of the most Zen-like people I know and thankfully, it is infectious. We are going to miss you so much Steve. Thank you for your extreme kindness and your incredible expertise. You made us and the buildings better.
· I am extremely pleased to announce that Becky Maue, the Library's current Special Projects Coordinator, will absorb Sandy Williams' responsibilities with her own when Sandy retires at the end of August. Becky's new title will be Executive Project Coordinator. Becky will continue to do all of her current special projects in addition to working with me, Eric and the Library Board on a day to day basis. Becky started working with the Library on 8/2/2011 as a part-time Library Clerk in Youth Services. She then transferred to full-time in Youth Services as the Youth Services Office Assistant. In February of 2022, Becky became the Library's Special Projects Coordinator.
· Barbara Turkington is coming back to the Library on a part time contractual basis. She will be here to support the Advancement team of Terri Williams and Ashley Sexton as they prepare for the Foundation's fundraising Gala. Many of you will remember Barbara as the former Assistant Director of Advancement. Barbara started working for the Library in 2011 and retired in 2022. During her tenure, Barbara had a new vision for the St. Louis County Library Foundation Board and she implemented that vision. She increased the level of professionalism, goals, fundraising efforts and the number of Friends of the Foundation. Barbara oversaw the first Strategic Plan for the Foundation which significantly raised the amount of support provided by the Foundation to the Library for programs and services. She also implemented a spring and fall appeal to solicit regular donations by mail. During her tenure, the Foundation created Alison Grants which directly impacts public service by supporting innovative programs and pilots created by branch employees. In addition, the Foundation began under Barbara and continues to sponsor and support large Library programs such as Born to Read, meals for kids in partnership with Operation Food Search, Coding 101, Gift of Reading, Digital Equity Initiatives including hotspots, chrome books, Excel Online High School and more. In addition to the programs, Barbara was at the center of planning and implementation for all of the successful Foundation Galas from 2012 to 2021. We are so happy to have her back with us for a while as we work to fill the Assistant Director of Advancement position.
· Congratulations to Megan Phifer-Davis, the Manager of Reference, on being named a 2024 Library Mover and Shaker by Library Journal. Megan was recognized for her innovative programs and her work with the justice-involved and small business initiatives. The nomination states that Megan's "ability to understand people has led her to be successful in her role as Manager of Reference. She shows empathy and compassion when asking insightful and provoking questions, allowing her to find and match the right resource for the patron she is helping. It is this unique ability that has led her to be creative and innovative with her program development. She recognized that many older adults re-entering the workforce after retirement were struggling to get their footing. It was from this insight and understanding that Megan developed the older adults job search program series and job fairs to help those individuals in our community be successful and feel empowered to rejoin the workforce." (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
· The Library is pleased to announce the grand opening of the new Clark Family Branch. The opening will occur in two phases. On June 1, the Post Event Space opened to the public for a ribbon cutting and author event with Darius Rucker, of Hootie and the Blowfish and country music fame. On Tuesday, July 9, a reception and program will begin at 8:00 a.m. followed by an official ribbon cutting ceremony for the Clark Family Branch at 9:00 a.m. and the entire branch will open to the public immediately following. This is the final project of Your Library Renewed. We have completed 21 buildings in 10 years. That is a unique and significant accomplishment. Thanks to the Library Board and the Library employees for their work on Your Library Renewed. Media tours were held at the Clark Family Branch on June 12. Paige Hulsey from KMOV will broadcast live the morning of June 18. The Library Board, Foundation Board and major donors have all toured the branch. There is a ton of work involved with moving the collection into the branch. Emily Althoff is leading that massive effort. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Increase Access 1a, 1b, 1c, 2a, 2c)
· Congratulations to Ted Sanditz who has been reappointed to the Library Board for another four-year term by St. Louis County Executive, Dr. Sam Page.
· The 2024 Early Educators Appreciation Event will recognize Laura Polak, Early Literacy Coordinator, with this year’s Early Literacy Champion Award. The award honors early childhood educators for their contributions to children and families in the Greater St. Louis area. Nicole Clawson and Sarah Wood wrote, “She is kind and patient with kids, parents, and colleagues and is a wonderful advocate for early literacy in our community. She continues to serve library patrons and the community as a whole with thoughtfulness and a passion to provide tools and resources so that all children will learn to read at grade level by 3rd grade.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2a, Increase Access 2c)
· At the April 2024 Library Board meeting, the Board approved the new 401(a) Plan and a matching contribution. Per State Statute, the Library was required to take certain steps before the new matching contribution plan can be approved. The Library submitted the documents to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER notified the public of this new plan. This was accomplished by posting the plan on their website for 45 days. The 45 days ended on June 3, 2024, and there were no public comments. The 401(a) Plan will be implemented on July 1, 2024. Currently, as an incentive to participate in the 457(b) plan, the Library offers a one-time $100 contribution to any employee who signs up within one month of their hire date. Once the Library implements the match effective July 1, 2024, the one-time contribution will be discontinued. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
· A sixth social worker, DeNyne Carter, has been hired by Epworth and the Library. The social worker will be based out of the Mid-County Branch, but will float between all of the other locations that do not currently have an assigned social worker. It is expected that services will be provided by this person starting in July after the orientation and training at Epworth in June. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 1d, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1c)
· I have been asked to serve on the Advisory Committee for the 2024 Library Director’s Summit which will take place in Columbia, South Carolina in November. This event is hosted by Library Journal. (Plan: Increase Awareness 2c) · The Library is offering Wellness Screenings for employees again this year. The screenings are free to all full-time employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
· On June 1, more than 50 people attended the unveiling of a plaque at Thornhill Branch to memorialize Dr. Chingling Tai, a former Trustee at the Library. The plaque was a joint effort between the Library and the Nanjing Sister City Committee, an organization which Dr. Tai was dedicated to during her life in St. Louis. Sandy Williams shared remarks on behalf of the Library. Many of Dr. Tai’s former colleagues and friends from St. Louis University and the Chinese community attended, and her son and daughter were present to recognize this honor. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
· In March, Ms. Sorth moderated a conversation for the Investor Council within Greater St. Louis Inc. I had suggested that they focus on the economic impact of arts and culture in the region and they agreed. Over 100 business and civic leaders attended the panel discussion of voices from the metro’s arts and culture institutions to discuss the incredible impact the arts have on our community and economy. That panel was so successful that they have asked me to organize a second panel for their Chair’s Council which includes individuals and organizations that make a higher investment in Greater St. Louis Inc. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, 3a, Increase Access 2b, 2c)
· The Library received an LSTA Ladder Grant for $20,880 to update the secure payment terminals installed on the circulation desks. The Library purchased 48 new Smart Terminal credit card payment devices from Comprise Technologies for $46,990. The current Smart Terminals have been classified end-of-support by Comprise. The devices are part of the Library’s Smart Money Manager point-of-sale and cash drawer system which integrates with our Polaris Information Library System. The entire purchase was included in the 2024 Library Budget. (Plan: Increase Access 1c) Library Construction and Facility Update
· In November 2018, the Library Board approved an agreement with Enterprise Fleet Management to provide leased vehicles and fleet project management. Benefits to the Library include lower cost of ownership, an upgraded fleet presence, and newer vehicles. The Library anticipated refreshing six vehicles every year so that the 30-vehicle fleet was continuously upgraded with safer, more efficient vehicles. It was intended that the fleet be completely converted to “leased” within five years and that no vehicle in the fleet would exceed five years old. Global supply chain disruptions in 2020-21 upset these plans a little but with the exception of a handful of specialty vehicles (such as Sweet Reads), as of June 1 the Library fleet is now 100% leased. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
· Faith Group, a St. Louis engineering firm, is performing commissioning on the Clark Family Branch. Commissioning is the process of confirming not only that HVAC equipment is correctly specified and installed, but that all the controls and control sequences perform as intended. Faith Group was instrumental in getting the building ready for the successful opening of the Post Holdings Event Center on June 1, and are working toward the entire branch opening on July 9. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation
· The Spring Appeal was a success. The Foundation received $31,000 from 209 individual gifts. (Plan: Increase Access 2b, 2c)
· Give STL Day brought in $7,500 from 56 individuals. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	The Library and Foundation received $80,085 in grant awards: * $20,880 from the LSTA (Library Services and Technology Act) Technology Ladder grant to replace credit card payment terminals throughout the District.
*$12,205 from the LSTA Virtual Reality Kit grant to purchase an educational VR kit that we will use in summer programming as well as outreach to senior centers. *$2,000 from MACAA (Missouri Association of Community Arts Agencies) for art programming at Cliff Cave, Eureka Hills, Jamestown Bluffs, and Weber Road. o $2,500 to the Foundation from Delta Dental to support Raise a Reader, providing early literacy kits to adopted children in St. Louis County. o $7,500 to the Foundation from Norman J. Stupp Foundation to support this summer’s three Sidney Johnson interns. o $15,000 to the Foundation from the Pott Foundation to support MetroMarket stops at Lewis & Clark this summer. o $20,000 to the Foundation from the St. Louis County Port Authority Community Investment Fund to support Small Business Launchpad in 2024 and 2025. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
 Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
· Elizabeth Acevedo, author of “Family Lore,” Monday, June 17, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· SOLD OUT - Ticketed Event: Riley Sager, author of “Middle of the Night,” Tuesday, June 18, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Nicola Yoon, author of “One of Our Kind,” Thursday, June 20, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Meg Gardiner, author of “Shadow Heart,” Tuesday, June 25, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· SOLD OUT - Ticketed Event: Mo Rocca, author of “Roctogenarians,” Wednesday, June 26, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Ticketed Event: Gabrielle Zevin, author of “Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow,” Thursday, June 27, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Ticketed Event: Friends & Fiction Podcast Team, with Kristy Woodson Harvey and friends, Friday, June 28, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Ticketed Event: Tomi Adeyemi, author of “Children of Anguish and Anarchy,”Sunday, June 30, 2024, 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Beatriz Williams and Claire Lombardo, authors of “Husbands and Lovers,” and “Same As It Ever Was,” Monday, July 8, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Katelyn Doyle, author of “Just Some Stupid Love Story,” Tuesday, July 9, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Linda Castillo, author of “The Burning,” Wednesday, July 10, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Lisa Jewell, author of “Breaking the Dark,” Thursday, July 11, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Daniel Silva, author of “A Death in Cornwall,” Friday, July 19, 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Lev Grossman, author of “The Bright Sword,” Sunday, July 21, 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch. · Victor Luckerson, author of “Built from the Fire,” Thursday, July 25, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
· Amy Stewart, author of “The Drunken Botanist,” Monday, July 29, 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch.
Materials Reconsideration Actions
Date Submitted            Item                                        Decision of Committee
4/29/2024                                 Grandad’s Pride            Retained in collection
5/16/2024                                 Tiger Daughter             Retained in collection
Johnny Wang requested more information on the Materials Reconsideration process. Deputy Director Eric Button, spoke about the process. Mr. Button said the process includes a committee reviewing the material and making a decision before a written response is sent to the patron per the Secretary of State’s Rule.
Dr. Beckwith asked how the schools are selected for Summer Reading Club Bookmobiles. Crystal Harris, Manager of Bookmobile and Mobile Services, explained that the process involved schools applying to receive service.  Deborah Patterson asked for a breakdown of those served by social workers.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
CODE OF CONDUCT AND SUSPENSION MATRIX
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this agenda item.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to Code of Conduct and the affiliated Suspension Matrix. There is only one item on the policy that has changed. The statements pertaining to the possession and use of alcohol and drugs, particularly marijuana, has been amended to address changes in Missouri State Statutes. Changes to the Suspension Matrix were drafted after collecting input from managers at all branches and reevaluating the severity and impact of Code of Conduct violations within several categories. Particular attention was given to increasing the consequences for patrons who endangered employee and patron safety. Redlined and clean copies of the proposed Code of Conduct and the Suspension Matrix have been provided. The Code of Conduct and the affiliated Suspension Matrix was reviewed by legal counsel.
The Library Board approved the proposed revisions to the Code of Conduct and the Suspension Matrix (Barry/Wang).
ANIMAL POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this agenda item.
Library Administration is seeking approval of revisions to the Animal Policy. In recent years, the frequency of animals being brought into the Library by patrons has increased sharply. The increase in the presence of animals has led to more frequent engagement between patrons and employees as employees seek to enforce current policies. The revisions in the policy more clearly defines a “service animal,” which is the only type of animal that a patron is permitted to bring into the Library. The revisions also make a clear distinction between pets and emotional support animals, which are prohibited, and service animals. The revisions in the policy also more clearly define the responsibilities of the individual to maintain proper control of the service animal. The revised policy was reviewed by legal counsel.  The Library Board approved the proposed revisions to the Animal Policy (Patterson/Wang).
CREATIVE LAB POLICY
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this agenda item.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a new policy to govern the use of the OCI Creative Lab at Clark Family Branch. The policy aims to define the scope of services available in the Creative Lab. At the same time, the policy requires that all use of the Creative Lab be lawful, avoiding violations of intellectual property, avoiding the creation of content that is obscene or offensive, or participating in any other activities that may be unsafe or harmful to Library users. The policy also creates the expectation that there may be limitations or restrictions on some of the equipment and a requirement for proper training and orientation prior to independent use. A copy of the proposed Creative Lab Policy has been provided. The policy was reviewed by legal counsel. The Library Board approved the proposed Creative Lab Policy (Patterson/Sanditz).
CREATIVE LAB SUPPLY FEES
Deputy Director Eric Button presented this agenda item.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a supply fee schedule associated with patron use of the OCI Creative Lab at new Clark Family Branch. These fees are based on the research and past experience of the Creative Lab Manager, who worked in a similar role at St. Louis Public Library. The OCI Creative Lab offers a wide variety of creative experiences for patrons who use the technology and equipment in the space. Some of the services offered in the Creative Lab will be completely digital in format and will not have any supply costs associated with them. Many of the activities and services will require the use of consumable materials. Some examples of this would include filament for 3D printers, materials for the laser engravers such as wood and acrylic supplies, glossy and matte paper for the large format printer, and special paper used with the Cricut paper cutting machine. Library Administration is recommending that Creative Lab users be allowed to utilize their $5.00 monthly copying/printing credit provided by the Library to pay for their projects in the Creative Lab. Expenses that exceed $5.00 will be charged at the rates shown in the table below. All of these rates are equivalent to the actual cost to the Library to provide these materials. There is no mark up in these costs. These rates will be automatically adjusted as required only when the actual cost to the Library
			SUPPLY TYPE
			PROPOSED
			FEE
			3D Printing
			$1.00 minimum per project
			$1.00 for every 10 grams of filament
			Laser Cutting
			$6.00 for a whole piece of 1/8” plywood
			$3.00 for a half sheet of 1/8” plywood
			$4.00 for a whole sheet of acrylic
			$2.00 for a half sheet of acrylic
			$8.00 for a whole sheet of special or mirrored acrylic
			$4.00 for a half sheet of special or mirrored acrylic
			Cricut
			$1.00 for 4 sheets of cardstock/color paper
			$1.00 for vinyl 12” x 12”
			$2.00 for 2 sheets of sticker paper
			Large Format Printer
			$1.00 per sq ft regular
			$1.00 per sq ft glossy
			$4.00 per sq ft banner
			$4.00 per sq ft matte canvas
			$4.00 per sq ft matte adhesive
			Sublimation
			$1.00 a sheet for 8 ½” x 11”
			$1.00 a sheet for mug wraps
The Library Board approved the use of the Library-provided $5.00 monthly credit to the cost of projects in the Creative Lab and 2) the Board approved the proposed fees for Creative Lab supplies and 3) that the Director and CEO may authorize changes to the supply fees in the future in accordance with the increased cost by the Library to acquire the supplies (Barry/Patterson).
BOILER REPLACEMENT AT PRAIRIE COMMONS BRANCH
Steve Hunter presented this agenda item.
On April 17, 2024, Library Administration published an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for Boiler Replacement at the Prairie Commons Branch. The IFB was directly emailed to fourteen local mechanical companies and posted on the Library’s website. At least two online bid services reposted the IFB for their members. Responses were due May 3, 2024.
Two firms responded:
 Company                                                                                Cost
 American Boiler & Mechanical                                            $120,392
 Integrated Facility Services (IFS)                                          $168,500
Administration and Building Systems thoroughly reviewed the proposals and agree that American Boiler & Mechanical has provided the lowest and best response to the IFB. This work is included in the approved 2024 Library budget for the amount of $187,500.
The Library Board selected American Boiler & Mechanical to provide the Boiler Replacement at the Prairie Commons Branch for $120,392 and that it authorize the Director and CEO to execute a contract or Purchase Order to that effect (Wang/Barry).
Employee Benefits - Health Insurance
Laura Taylor presented the items for Health Insurance F-K.
Per State statute, the Library is required to go out for bid for the Library’s employee health insurance policy every three years. The Library’s insurance broker, Daniel and Henry, sent proposals to four health insurance companies. The attached spreadsheet from Daniel and Henry compares the three most competitive responses from Anthem, United Healthcare, and Cigna. The Library received the renewal for employee health insurance from our current carrier, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, and it was a 7.84% increase. With the assistance of Daniel and Henry, we were able to negotiate a lower renewal of 0%. The Library budgeted a 10% increase for health insurance. United Healthcare was 4.2% below our current premiums, Cigna quoted but was not competitive and Aetna declined to quote as they also were not competitive. Although United Healthcare was the lowest quote, they have the right to re-rate the plan if the final census is +/- 10% change from what was originally provided and there could be a first year renewal increase. In addition, there would be a disruption to our employees with their network and prescription drugs, along with an administrate burden to update all the open enrollment materials and re-education about a new plan. Because of this, Daniel and Henry recommends staying with our current carrier, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield. With the Board’s approval, the cost will remain the same for both the Library District and the employees.
Effective August 1, 2024
			Tier
			SLCL Monthly Cost Per Employee
			Employee Monthly Cost
			Total Cost Per Month
			Employee
			$702.83
			$15.00
			$717.83
			Emp + Spouse
			$698.22
			$752.15
			$1,450.37
			Emp + Child(ren)
			$699.01
			$625.52
			$1,324.53
			Family
			$1,121.59
			$812.67
			$1,934.26
The Library plans to hold open enrollment meetings virtually to inform the employees of the benefits relate to open enrollment.
The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Anthem and contribute the same amount for the new plan year for all tiers of coverage. The budgeted amount for the health insurance renewal was 10%. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Wang).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - DENTAL INSURANCE
The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Delta Dental. The budgeted amount for the dental insurance renewal was 10%.
Per State statute, the Library is required to go out for bid for the Library’s employee dental insurance policy every three years. The Library’s insurance broker, Daniel and Henry, sent proposals to seven dental insurance companies. The attached spreadsheet from Daniel and Henry compares the five most competitive responses from Delta Dental, Cigna, Standard, United Healthcare and Anthem.
All the submitted bids were lower than our current dental plan with Anthem being the same as the incumbent. Delta Dental did reduce its premium by 5% from the current year and has a better overall network of dentists compared to the other companies. Also, the administrative costs involved with switching carriers are significant enough that Daniel & Henry recommends staying with our current carrier.
With the Library Board’s approval, effective August 1, 2024, we
Basic Plan - Effective August 1, 2024
			Tier
			SLCL Monthly Cost Per Employee
			Employee Monthly Cost
			Total Monthly Cost
			Employee
			$30.21
			$0
			$30.21
			Family
			$30.21
			$53.50
			$83.71
Premium Plan – Effective August 1, 2024
			Tier
			SLCL Monthly Cost Per Employee
			Employee Monthly Cost
			Total Monthly Cost
			Employee
			$30.21
			$8.03
			$38.24
			Family
			$30.21
			$81.92
			$112.13
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Barry).  Deborah Patterson abstained.  The motion passes.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - VISION INSURANCE
The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with VSP for the Library’s optional vision insurance.
Per State statute, the Library is required to go out for bid for the Library’s employee vision insurance policy every three years. The Library’s insurance broker, Daniel and Henry, sent proposals to eight vision insurance companies. The attached spreadsheet from Daniel and Henry compares the six most competitive responses from VSP, DeltaVision, Cigna, Anthem, Standard and United Healthcare. All the submitted bids were lower than our current vision plan. However, VSP submitted a 0% increase in premiums, has a better overall network of providers, and the administrative costs involved with switching carriers are significant enough that Daniel & Henry recommends staying with our current carrier. VSP also added essential medical eye care and LightCare as additional benefits for 2024. This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library. Effective August 1, 2024, the employee rate will remain at $8.13/month, and dependent coverage will remain at $17.47/month.
The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Patterson).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - LIFE INSURANCE, AD&D, LONG-TERM DISABILITY & VOL LIFE
Per State statute, the Library is required to go out for bid for the Library’s employee life insurance, AD&D, long-term disability, and voluntary life insurance policy every three years. The Library’s insurance broker, Daniel and Henry, sent proposals to four insurance companies. The attached spreadsheet from Daniel and Henry compares responses from The Hartford, New York Life and Standard. All the submitted bids were lower than our current plans. However, Hartford does not use the age reduction schedule that reduces benefits as people age like the other carriers. In addition, Hartford agreed to have a 0% increase and a decrease in our premiums for long-term disability by 2.44%. Effective August 1, 2024, the rates for life and AD&D will remain at $.27/$.01 per $1,000. The rates will decrease to $.200/$100 for long-term disability, and there were no changes to the voluntary life insurance rates. RECOMMENDATION: The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with The Hartford for life, AD&D, LTD, and voluntary life insurance. The proposals are in line with the budgeted amount for these benefits.
The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with The Hartford for life, AD&D, LTD, and voluntary life insurance. The proposals are in line with the budgeted amount for these benefits. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Patterson).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - ANCILLARY INSURANCE
The Library’s broker, Daniel and Henry, obtained quotes for critical illness insurance and accident insurance from The Hartford and Standard. Hartford reduced the rates by 17.6% for accident insurance and 11.5% for critical illness insurance. Critical illness insurance offers a lump sum benefit payable for a person when diagnosed with any covered critical illness. Accident insurance offers a cash benefit if a person is injured as the result of a covered accident. In addition, the Library’s pet insurance offering is still with Nationwide. This policy offers a choice of a 50% reimbursement, 70% reimbursement, or a 90% reimbursement, depending on the premium the employee chooses. All of these benefits are voluntary and do not result in any cost to the Library. The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that effective August 1, 2024, we remain with our current carriers, the Hartford for accident and critical illness coverage and Nationwide for pet insurance. The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that effective August 1, 2024, we remain with our current carriers, the Hartford for accident and critical illness coverage and Nationwide for pet insurance. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Barry/Patterson).
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - SHORT TERM DISABILITY
Per State statute, the Library is required to go out for bid for the Library’s employee short-term disability insurance policy every three years. The Library’s insurance broker, Daniel and Henry, sent proposals to three insurance companies. The attached spreadsheet from Daniel and Henry compares the responses from The Hartford, New York Life and Standard. All the submitted bids were lower than our current short-term disability plan. However, The Hartford submitted a 0% increase in premiums. Daniel & Henry recommends we stay with The Hartford for consistency as they are our long-term disability carrier. Additionally, the other carriers were not able to duplicate the same classes of coverage we currently have with The Hartford. This benefit is voluntary and does not result in any cost to the Library. The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that effective August 1, 2024, we remain with The Hartford for the Library’s optional short-term disability insurance. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Patterson/Barry).
457 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN LOAN POLICY
At the April 2024 Library Board meeting, the Board approved the restated Deferred Compensation Plan. The newly restated plan includes a loan provision for employees who are participating in the plan. Participants may borrow dollars from their Deferred Compensation Plan balance. It allows the participant to build up long-term savings for retirement while retaining access to a portion of their funds for unexpected needs or emergencies. It is common for organizations to allow at least one loan per participant for the plan. This document was drafted by legal counsel from Constangy, Brooks, Smith and Prophete. The attached document outlines the details of the loan policy which include the following provisions. · Loan amount - 50% of vested account balance Minimum loan - $1000 Maximum - $50,000 · Interest rate – Prime plus 1%
· General loan – maximum of 60 months
· Residential – maximum of 15 years
The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board approve the Deferred Compensation Loan Policy as created by Constangy, Brooks Smith & Prophete effective July 1, 2024, in substantially the form presented at this meeting, and authorize the Library Director and CEO to make additional changes as needed to finalize the documents. The Library Board approved the recommendation (Wang/Barry).
RECRUITING EFFORTS
Jennifer Gibson presented data and comparison charts to the Board concerning the Library’s efforts to recruit.   The Board president thanked her for the information. Dr. Beckwith requested that this item be placed on the July Board meeting for discussion.
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wang made a motion to adjourn the meeting. A second was made by Deborarh Patterson.  All approved with voice vote. Aye: Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz, Joan Barry, Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson
Meeting adjourned at 4:55 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­____________________________________            _____________
Joan Barry                                                                   Date
Secretary