{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "CYRUAK7B0441",
  "date": "2024-11-18T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2024
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, November 18, 2024 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
Mr. Sanditz, Treasurer, was not in attendance.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Desiree Whitlock, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Zoe Maffitt, Ja’Mel McCaine, Donna Jones, Melissa Bauer, Donna Spaulding, Trista Doyle, Laura Baublitz, Stephanie Nordmann, Terrence McCoy, Lisa Haddox, Cheri Remington, Carrie Robb, Kalin Preston, Nicole Clawson, Katie Keeven, Nicole Walsh, Allison Wisniewski, Sarah Jones, Kat Van Arsdale, Sarah Brown, Anne Bradley, Melissa Hupp, Darien Jones, Will LaChance, Eric Fey, Alaina Culbertson, Carla Maxwell, Megan Phifer Davis, Heather Neill, Lauren Wadyko, Mary Arnhart, Rick Stream, Emily Althoff, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 23, 2024 Library Board minutes (Beckwith/Patterson).
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Eric Fey and Rick Stream from the St. Louis County Board of Election expressed their thanks for the branches that were early voting locations. They said 40% of all ballots were cast at a SLCL location. They said it was a tremendous amount of work and the Library exceeded their expectations. They thanked the branch management in attendance and let them know they were sending edible arrangements as a thank you for all of their hard work.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the Treasurer’s Report for the month of September.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue (page 2)
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $63.6 million which is 100% of the total budget of $63.6 million. The District will continue to receive a small amount of tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Grants - In September, the Library District recognized $23,912 in State Grants. Of this amount, $13,920 was received for the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Tech Ladder Grant to upgrade credit card payment terminals to maintain secure financial transactions for patrons, $5,000 was for the LSTA Spotlight on Literacy Grant for the floating social worker at Mid-County, and $4,992 was for the LSTA Memory Kits Grant to purchase adult memory kits.
Expense (page 5)
	Bldg. Operations-Grounds & Outside Projects - In September, the Library District incurred a total of $108,556 in Bldg. Operations-Grounds & Outside Projects. Of this amount, $107,056 was paid to Surecut Solutions, LLC for landscaping between March and July. The company was selected at the February 2024 Board Meeting to provide lawn and landscaping maintenance services for three years.
	Technology - Equipment - In September, the Library District incurred a total of $103,793 in Technology - Equipment. Of this amount, $103,105 was paid to Dell Marketing, LP for personal computers and monitors.
	Capital Improvements - In September, the Library District incurred a total of $916,294 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $379,046 was paid to Interior Construction Services for August expenses, $312,001 to Datum Filing Systems for high density shelving at the Clark Family Branch, and $186,381 to CI Select for furniture at the Clark Family Branch.
The Library Board approved the November 18, 2024 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Beckwith/Patterson). Motion passed unanimously.
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the Treasurer’s Report for the month of October.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue (page 2)
	District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 is $63.8 million which is 100% of the total budget of $63.6 million. The District will continue to receive a small amount of tax revenue throughout the year.
	State Aid - In October, the Library District received a Missouri State Aid payment of $307,341. This was the first of two payments for the State of Missouri’s 2025 fiscal year. The second payment for the State of Missouri’s 2025 fiscal year is expected in May. The Library District budgeted $616,000 in 2024 for Missouri State Aid.
	E-Rate Discounts - In October, the Library District received $78,733 in E-Rate rebates. These rebates help to cover the cost of the Library’s Wi-Fi, fiber internet, and Wide Area Network (WAN) from Charter Communications.
Expense (pages 4 and 5)
	Grant Fulfillment Expense - In October, the Library District incurred a total of $50,759 in Grant Fulfillment Expense. Of this amount, $32,569 was for social workers and $13,832 was for the joint STL Summer Adventure with St. Louis Public Library.
	Capital Improvements - In October, the Library District incurred a total of $68,112 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $19,734 was paid to Lamar Johnson Collaborative for a new Sachs design and September Clark Family expenses; $16,594 to Interior Construction Services for September Clark Family expenses; and $16,005 to Avison Young for July and September Clark Family expenses.
The Library Board approved the November 18, 2024 Treasurer's Report subject to audit (Patterson/Beckwith). Motion passed unanimously.
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for October and November.
	Circulation in September reached 905,444 and 918,969 in October. The most popular print collection in September was the children’s picture book collection with over 100,000 books checked out to patrons.  In October, patrons placed 116,937 holds and 115,588 holds were filled. Library employees and the automated sorters checked in 526,168 items.  With 376,119 people visiting the branches, Library visits in October spiked by nearly 30% compared to October of 2023 due to the start of early voting.  This is the highest monthly number of visitors to the Library since the pandemic. The busiest day for early voting was Monday, November 4th with a total of 26,493 visits.  Jamestown Bluffs saw the largest increase in visits with a 161% increase at 17,140 visitors. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3a, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth discussed how the Library played a major role in the execution of early voting and as polling places on Election Day.  The greatest impact was felt by the ten branches (Cliff Cave, Clark Family, Daniel Boone, Grand Glaize, Grant’s View, Jamestown Bluffs, Lewis & Clark, Mid-County, Oak Bend, and Thornhill) who hosted two weeks of early voting prior to Election Day on November 5.  The lines started off long in the first few days and they continued to increase as Election Day drew closer.  Lines ranged from 200 to more than 700 voters throughout the course of early voting.  Voters were often waiting for 1-2 hours to cast their ballots as a result of the high turnout.  Parking lots and nearby roadways were overwhelmed with cars and people coming to vote.  She regularly communicated with the Board of Elections leadership, the St. Louis County Department of Transportation, the Missouri Department of Transportation, and local police departments to seek their assistance with these parking and traffic issues.  The responsiveness of each agency was tremendous, and they were able to dedicate personnel to help direct traffic and enforce necessary parking restrictions.  Library management and all Library employees handled the challenging situation with patience and grace even though they were also impacted by traffic and parking struggles.  Throughout the early voting period, she, Eric, Dan, Emily, Alaina, and Amy made visits to branches to offer support and check in on how the operation was proceeding.  Managers did a great job of communicating their needs so they could be addressed. Over the course of the month Customer Connect had more than 2,000 calls related to voting. During the early voting period beginning October 22nd, 24% to 40% of the daily call volume was related to voting.  On Election Day, all 20 Library locations served as polling places.  Strong turnout was visible at most polling places, but the volume was not overwhelming like what we experienced in the early voting.  Managers carefully planned out their queuing and signage to make it easy for voters to get in line for the polling place.  With very few exceptions, interactions between voters, electioneers, and Library employees went very smoothly and people were in good spirits.  Ms. Sorth expressed how proud she is of all the employees and happy that the Library could play such an important role by serving as polling places for this election. (Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	The 45th Annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival kicked off on Wednesday, November 13 and runs through November 23.  The Festival will include performances by eight nationally renowned storytellers, along with a variety of other programs and presenters. This year’s line-up will include bilingual performances, indigenous storytelling, folklore, writing workshops and more.  Venues for events include the Post Event Space at Clark Family, as well as other Library branch locations, Missouri History Museum, St. Louis Art Museum, and dozens of schools and senior centers. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth said starting on November 20, the Library will begin circulating a new Library of Things category. The GoPro Kit includes the Hero 12 Black camera, accessories for mounting the camera in a variety of ways, a micro SD memory card, and a carrying case for easy handling. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, 3d)
	Patrons with a smartphone or tablet now have the ability to check out materials using the Library’s mobile app. While the patron is in a Library branch, the Self Check Out feature will allow the user to use their device’s camera to scan a barcode and check out material. The simple feature is user-friendly, and will save a receipt for the patron directly in the app. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Increase Access 1d)
	Ms. Sorth announced the St. Louis Cardinals and the Great Southern Bank bookmobile units are expected to be delivered very soon.  Prior to their launch they will be wrapped with their respective sponsor graphics.  She said we will also provide driving practice time to get the bookmobile drivers accustomed to these units, which are quite different from the traditional truck and trailer model.  She announced we are planning for a December 3 ribbon cutting event at Bierbaum Elementary School in the Mehlville School District in partnership with the St. Louis Cardinals.  The Great Southern Bank Bookmobile will launch later in December or in early January at Parker Road Elementary in the Ferguson-Florissant School District.  The third bookmobile unit being manufactured at Farber is expected to be delivered near the end of 2024.  The fourth bookmobile, which is being manufactured by CAD Industries, is expected in the spring of 2025. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 1d, 2a, 2c, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c, 2a)
	The Communications Department has created a logo for the Library’s “Gateway to Reading” initiative which will include workshops, kits and books based on the Science of Reading principles, which takes a phonics-based approach to learning to read as opposed to the more traditional method of learning by sight words alone. The Gateway to Reading workshops will introduce families to the methodology and provide them with information and resources to teach their children how to read.  Circulating kits will be made available with a variety of decodable books grouped by steps and other resources to make the learning experience more enjoyable for children. These initiatives will be a major focus of the Library’s Strategic Plan under “Promote Literacy and Lifelong Learning” in 2025.  This week, the members of the Administration and the Youth Services Department will present our plans to over twenty local Foundations who have an interest in early literacy. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2d)
	The most recent Excel Adult High School graduation ceremony was a family-filled event with several notable achievements. This year’s graduating class included newlyweds, a pair of twins, and the mother of a former graduate. Ms. Sorth said we were honored to have Dr. Beckwith provide our keynote address and have his sisters in attendance for the presentation of the Myrtis Jones Beckwith Memorial Scholarship, in honor of their mother. The Library’s Foundation fundraises for the Myrtis Jones Beckwith scholarship which pays the tuition for patrons to earn their high school diploma via the Excel program. The ceremony was a heartwarming event filled with shared joy for the graduates and their families. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 3c)
	In September, the Smithsonian and the St. Louis County Library History & Genealogy Department launched a new partnership. The National Museum of African American and Culture came to St. Louis to conduct Community Curation - a program where the organization digitizes records of African American families to add to their collection, while also preserving those records for the family. History & Genealogy contacted the Smithsonian to serve as a secondary site for digitizing these items. During this time over 1,000 photos, 15 VHS tapes, and a wealth of other media were digitized. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c)
	The Library accepted new submissions for Listen Up STL. This community collection of local music had moved to rolling submissions in the post-pandemic years.  In August, the Library promoted a month-long open submission period and received over 65 applications for inclusion in the collection. Ultimately, 43 albums met the collection’s criteria and were placed in the Listen Up STL community collection on the BiblioBoard platform. This was the largest addition to Listen Up STL since 2019, with a 15% increase in the collection’s size. The collection will be open to submissions again next August. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
	The Information Services Department hosted the annual Small Business and Nonprofit Conference which ran October 1-4, in partnership with St. Louis Public Library. The Library welcomed keynote speaker Akeem Shannon on October 1st to talk about resilience to an in-person and virtual crowd. On October 2nd, the Conference was at the Central Library of SLPL, hosting 14 sessions. October 3rd had 19 sessions at Clark Family Branch. Friday, October 4th, was virtual and had 13 sessions. Total attendance was 1,344, which was a 115% increase from 2023. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c)
	The Novel Creations Pop-Up Market Series was an immersive eight-week course designed to help budding entrepreneurs learn how to create, promote, and showcase their brands effectively. The 8-week series ended on October 30th. In November, the entrepreneurs will build up product stock to be able to sell at the Pop-Up Market on Saturday, December 14th at the Clark Family Branch where the public can shop from the 60 entrepreneurs that completed the program. The public can shop from 1:00-4:00. ((Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said on Saturday October 5th, the Library hosted its first "Bike the Branches" at the Oak Bend and Grant's View branches with almost 200 participants. Patrons rode their bikes 3.8 miles from one branch to the other on Grant's Trail. The Library partnered with Ulysses S. Grant National Historic Site and the Sappington House Museum for educational stops along the way. If patrons visited both museums and both branches, they were entered into a raffle for gift cards from REI and Alpine Shop. Library patrons also enjoyed drop-in stretching sessions, cycling-themed crafts for kids, bike maintenance help from Trailnet, Great Rivers Greenway swag, donuts in the morning, and Gus' pretzels in the afternoon. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1b, 1c)
	On November 23, representatives from St. Louis County Library will attend St. Louis County Court’s Adoption Day. Employees will distribute Raise a Reader bags to each child/teen at their final adoption hearing that morning. The Raise a Reader bags are sponsored by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and made possible through a grant from Delta Dental. Bags are created for five different age groups and contain books, journals, and colored pencils along with Library information. So far, 600 bags have been created and donated to the County Courts for youth to receive at their final adoption hearing. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2b, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2a, 2d)
	Ms. Sorth announced the 3rd annual St. Louis Teen Book Festival will take place on Saturday, December 7 at the Clark Family Branch from 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.  She said in order to accommodate the large crowds for the Festival, the Clark Family Branch will be closed for all other activities that are unrelated to the Teen Book Festival.  The day will include book talks, author signings, and meet-and-greet opportunities with 17 amazing young adult authors. The festival line-up includes a diverse group of fan-favorite, bestselling YA authors from all genres, as well as the hottest debut voices and local authors. Books will be available for purchase from The Novel Neighbor. She also said since we are expanding the length of the festival and adding a morning session this year, we will have two food trucks at the event from 11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 1c, 2b, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Winter Reading Challenge will kick off on December 1 and go through January 31. All ages can participate. Participants will complete at least five activities to be entered in an electronic prize raffle. Examples of activities include reading any book you want, requesting a personalized reading list, listening to an audiobook and attending a library program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, 3d)
	St. Louis County Library hosted a performance of “An Unlikely Hero” presented by Metro Theater Company on Wednesday, November 6 at 6:30 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch. The play features a character named Jordan who doesn’t fit in at school and spends her time immersed in comic books. She received an invitation to attend Haven High, a school for superheroes which sends her on a journey to find her place in the world.  The production is part of “With Great Power: The TYA BIPOC Superhero Project,” an unprecedented national partnership for young audiences dedicated to creating plays about BIPOC heroes for young people. Fifty people across all ages enjoyed the performance. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b)
	Throughout October the Library hosted a Personal Care Item drive benefiting the Circles of Support SHIELD project as part of Domestic Violence Awareness Month.  Through the generosity of our community an amazing amount of items were collected. (Plan: Sense of community 1b, 3a, 3c)
Service Stats 2021 to Current:
2024 only:
	Ms. Sorth mentioned the St. Louis County Library has been in the local media in print, radio and television.  Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Pictures were shown from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month: Potty Training 101 at Florissant Valley, author Nicholas Sparks at Clark Family, Little Readers Festival at Florissant Valley, Akeem Shannon - Small Business and Nonprofit Conference Keynote at Clark Family, Bike the Branches at Grant's View, author Dan Jones at Clark Family, Kranzberg Art Tour at Clark Family, Monster Parade at Grand Glaize, author Lauren Tarshis at Clark Family, author Jessi Gold, M.D., M.S. at Clark Family, and Cozy Con at Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 2d, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
	A child visiting Natural Bridge complimented the employee’s Halloween costumes. When he said he'd never had one before, the employees immediately swooped in and made him a batman costume from items they had on hand in the branch, complete with a cape, belt, logo, and mask. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 2d)
	I just want to thank those in charge of the St Louis County Library system for enriching our family’s life with beautiful newly renovated library buildings, educational children’s activities, meal programs, the Storytelling Festival (!!) and fabulous author events. I can’t imagine a more vibrant and responsive community organization. Please convey my thanks to the leadership who make this possible. ❤️❤️❤️ (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3c, Increase Access 1a)
	Regarding Meramec Valley:  This is my home library, and coming here is always a joy. Everything about this place makes my life easier. The conference rooms, printer station, book organization etc are all designed for an intuitive experience.  However, the highlight of this location is definitely the staff. I’ve never had a bad experience in the decade plus I’ve come here. They’ve helped me access resources I couldn’t afford, vote, find obscure copies of books, and so much more. I’ve watched them deal with rude patrons with grace and professionalism. As I’m typing this, Zack is helping a man find an obscure TV series on DVD with almost no information. They’re incredible. I hope they know that. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 1d, 2d, 3c, Increase Access 1a)
	Jasmin was a truly engaging storyteller who captivated her audience and crafted her stories to the age levels she was presenting to. She incorporated movement, language, song, and culture into her stories and brought the audience into the story with her. She asked engaging questions that led audience members to connect to her stories. She encouraged and advocated for students to treasure and continue to grow their family's languages and to not let them be forgotten. She told new stories and familiar stories with new elements so that students could build on stories they already knew! She was sensational. The teachers, school librarian, and students expressed their sincerest enjoyment and admiration for Jasmin's storytelling abilities. Several students who spoke Spanish found connection with Jasmin and her stories and came up to her once she was done to thank her and speak with her. It was incredibly special to witness. A group of 5th grade students shared that they particularly loved the folktale of how the ocelot got its spots! The students also loved getting to share what languages they spoke as Jasmin asked them before she began her story telling. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 2a)
	Dear Mr. Button,
Last week, I had the very delightful pleasure of enjoying the new Clark Family Branch Library of the St. Louis County system. In North Carolina, my home, the zoom meetings with the St Louis Genealogy Society, that presented the progress reports, made a stop at the Library high on my "visit" list with family. Of course, visits with family are first, but now, an added destination will be the Clark Branch! Truly, after a week at the Family Search Library from which I had just come, the SLCL staff, in my opinion, are as knowledgeable as or more so than those in Salt Lake City! I can't tell you how much I appreciated the professional help from the staff in Genealogy. My thanks to you and to the staff for the help and support in my research. I would say that the Library is worth every penny spent. For sure I'll see you next year! (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Increase Access 1a)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth shared the Library’s first Employee Engagement Day (formerly known as In-Service Day) took place on Monday, October 14th at the Clark Family Branch. We had 507 employees register to attend (448 [88%] full-time and 56 [11%] part-time). I started the day with a Keynote address followed by three presentations:
	I Am St. Louis, and I Don’t Believe We’ve Met by Jody Sowell, President and CEO of Missouri Historical Society
	Collaborating with the SLCL Social Work Team presented by Katie Lappe, Rachel Weishar, Kaitlin Bosomworth, Abby Frye, Elizabeth McDermott, DeNyne Carter; and
	Mystery Session: Egg Drop presented by the Employee Engagement Committee
All employees were split into three groups and traveled as a group from session to session. Boxed lunches from Panera were provided along with general light snacks. There was a new component of the day called Field Day where employees got to spend time exploring the new branch and participate in a variety of fun and interactive activities.  As a way to give back to the community, employees brought their gently used winter gear that was donated to Operation Food Search. The day ended with door prizes and a group picture. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d)
	The annual employee Pumpkin Decorating Contest was held in October. There are 15 contenders this year and voting opened on November 7th. The first place winner will receive a $100 gift card; second place a $75 gift card; and third place a $50 gift card. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	The Fall into Fitness challenge took place throughout October as a way for employees to participate in any physical activity that aligned with their fitness goals. The employees who completed the challenge were entered into a raffle for a chance to win a $50 gift card to REI or Dick's Sporting Goods. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	The KTRS Book Club where authors visiting the Library for an upcoming author event, are interviewed on the radio is moving to the afternoon show with Heidi Glaus, which airs from 3:00 - 6:00 pm, starting in November. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Increase Access 2a, 2c)
	Ms. Sorth mentioned plans are being finalized for the unveiling of the new Cardinals Bookmobile at 10:00 a.m. on December 3 at Bierbaum Elementary. Representatives from the Cardinals and SLCL will hold an assembly at Bierbaum Elementary, with an appearance by Fredbird, followed by an opportunity for students to explore the new bookmobile. The Library is also releasing a limited-edition Cardinals library card to celebrate the new bookmobile, which will be revealed at the event. Events for the Great Southern and Emerson bookmobiles are also being planned. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, Increase Access 2a, 2c)
	The Library held a kickoff meeting with Hicks-Carter-Hicks to begin planning diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging training for employees. Training will begin with online micro courses this year. Training will continue into 2025 with live in-person and online sessions for all employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 1d)
	The Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) Council will hold its first meeting on November 19.  In addition to developing a charter they will also have the opportunity to preview upcoming DEIB training and provide feedback. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 1d)
	The Library celebrated National Hispanic Heritage month for the first time in September and October. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Ms. Sorth said recent changes to processes in the Transportation Department have yielded very positive results.  Updating the four routes that serve to move material around the system has resulted in a savings of staff time and library resources (2 hour drive time, 70 miles each week). All branches are now getting the delivered material before noon each day and the drivers return to the Beck with time to perform sorting duties in the afternoons.  An additional part-time sorting clerk was also hired for the department. With the changes made to the delivery routes, materials are now available to patrons faster than ever.  A report was created to measure the amount of time it takes a requested item from St. Louis Public Library to reach the hold shelf for a patron at St. Louis County Library.  An impressive 38% of the items reach SLCL the next day, 25% the second day and 38% reach SLCL on the third day.  In total 96% of the requested items reach our hold shelf within three days.  The drivers in the Transportation department make daily pickups from St. Louis Public Library Monday-Friday. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth mentioned they are meeting with Lamar Johnson Collaborative to begin the design process for the new Sachs Branch.  The design of the new building will most likely run into next summer. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The IT Department recently completed a major upgrade of the Library’s Pharos system.  Pharos manages patrons’ PC usage as well as patron printing and copying services. This effort also paves the way for the Library to offer patrons an improved remote printing experience when submitting print jobs from a mobile device. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	A twelve member cross functional cybersecurity team recently kicked off its effort to improve the Library’s cybersecurity best practices.  The team is actively collaborating on numerous topics with the overall goal of increasing the Library’s security posture. (Plan: Increase Access 1c, 1d)
	The installation of the new boilers for Prairie Commons is almost complete. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Small painting projects will be taking place around the system through the end of the year.  This is to freshen up areas which have been well loved by our patrons. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth said she is sad to report that the large Pin Oak tree which was saved during the Clark Family construction has been damaged in a recent storm.  We have asked multiple arborists for their advice on what can be done to save the tree.  Unfortunately, each of them have recommended that the tree be removed.  We have blocked off the path so patrons cannot walk under the tree, and we are working with a tree removal service to have the tree taken down.  The Lamar Johnson Collaborative has provided us with recommendations for replacement.  They have suggested planting a group of three long-lived canopy trees which will complement the existing white pines in this area. (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth reported they recently met with members of the MODOT crew who are currently working on upgrades along Lindbergh Blvd. They notified us that the following upgrades will be made to the intersection at the entrance of the Clark Family Branch from Lindbergh Blvd:
		The existing light will be replaced with new lights.
		The crosswalks will be updated to include a call button and will have both visual and audible cues for crossing the street.
		New crosswalks will be painted on all sides of the intersection except the north side.
		The stacking area for cars making a left turn into the Clark Family parking lot will increase in length, so more cars can be waiting in this area. This will reduce the amount of backup along Lindbergh.
		Detection will be added to the left turn signal into the library parking lot. This will result in shorter wait times at this turn signal. (They currently do not have any detection for this light.)
		Upgrades will be made to the sidewalks in this area, but this work will not be finished until after the holiday season due to a request from Plaza Frontenac. (Plan: Increase Access)
Library Foundation and Grants
	Ms. Sorth announced the Foundation awarded four Alison Grants for program ideas submitted by Library employees.  These included a Dungeons and Dragons program at Parkview, a Black Music Month program submitted by the Black History Committee, a Silent Disco Program at Daniel Boone, and Dyslexia Kits for circulation submitted by Ricqui Brooks in Adult Services. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
	The Library Foundation's Gala was held on October 5th at the Clark Family Branch.  They raised $209,375 in support of the Library. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 1a, 2c)
	The following grants were received:
		The Library Foundation received a $5,000 grant from the Incarnate Word Foundation to support social workers.
		The Library Foundation received a $25,000 grant from PNC to support Gateway to Reading in 2025.
		The Library received a $15,844 Technology Mini grant from the State Library to replace a server.
		The Library Foundation received a $10,000 grant from the Enterprise Mobility Foundation to support social workers.
		The Library Foundation received a $2,500 unrestricted gift from Commerce Bank. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 3c, Increase Access 1c)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth announced we recently added an unexpected author event with TODAY Show co-host Al Roker. The event will be a ticketed program on Nov. 22nd at 7:00 p.m.  He will be discussing his new cookbook “Al Roker’s Recipes to Live By.”  The event is sold out and is the largest event on Al Roker’s book tour.
The Library will again host former U.S. Poet Laureate Billy Collins for a ticketed event on Friday, December 13th.  The event is presented in partnership with the St. Louis Poetry Center. Collins will read from his new poetry collection “Water, Water” and discuss his career with acclaimed poet and Washington University Professor, Mary Jo Bang.
Author Events for November and December (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Armin Schmitt, author of “The Lost World of the Dinosaurs: Uncovering the Secrets of the Prehistoric Age,” Monday, November 11, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Abbott Kahler, author of “Eden Undone: A True Story of Sex, Murder, and Utopia at the Dawn of World War II,” Tuesday, November 12, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Steven Watts, author of “Citizen Cowboy: Will Rogers and the American People,” Monday, November 18, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ticketed Event: Al Roker, author of “Al Roker’s Recipes to Live By,” Friday, November 22, 7:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch * SOLD OUT *
	Rachel Lynn Solomon, author of “Business or Pleasure,” Thursday, December 5, 2024, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ticketed Event: Billy Collins, author of “Water, Water,” Friday, December 13, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DAY PRESENTATION
Tarza Tawfiq, Employee Relations Coordinator, introduced five Employee Engagement Committee members in attendance. Tarza spoke on Employee Engagement Week leading up to it and the highlights of the employee engagement day.
PENSION BOARD APPOINTMENTS
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following.
Per the Library Board’s Bylaws Article 1, Section 4, the Library Board establishes policies and reviews procedures under which the St. Louis County Library District Employees’ Pension Plan is administered and maintained.
The Library Board makes appointments to the Pension Board when there is a vacancy.  Johnny Wang has resigned as President of the Pension Board.  The Board must appoint another Board member to serve on the Pension Board.
The Library Administration recommends Per the Library Board Bylaws, members of the Pension Board must be appointed by the Library Board. The Library Board unanimously approved the motion (Patterson/Beckwith).
REVISIONS TO THE PENSION PLAN
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following:
The St. Louis County Library Employees’ Pension Plan was established in 1967 and has been restated four times since then with the last restatement taking place in 2015. The plan has also been amended several times over the years, mostly recently in 2022 with an increase to the benefit multiplier. In addition, the Actuarial Assumptions have been revised frequently over the years to keep up with best practices.
The Library Administration and the Pension Board continue to explore options to update the Employees’ Pension Plan to provide a more contemporary and better benefit for eligible Library employees.  One of the options considered was to change the final average earnings calculation from an eligible employee’s final five years of service to their final three years of service.  The five-year final average earnings calculation has been in place since the Plan was established in 1967.
Milliman, the Library’s Actuary, prepared the attached report which calculates the cost associated with implementing a change from the current five-year average for the pension benefit calculation to a three-year average. In addition, the report provides the impact on the funding ratio of the Plan. The report and recommendation was discussed and approved at the October Pension Board meeting. Following that meeting, Library Administration had discussions with several other large pension plans in Missouri to discuss the length of time they use for the final average earnings calculation.  The State of Missouri, St. Louis County Government and St. Louis Public Library all use the final three years for their pension calculations.
This change is estimated to add $210,000 to the annual Pension Contribution which will take place in April 2025 following Library Board approval.  The Library’s 2025 Draft Budget includes this additional amount.
Per State Statute, the Library District must take certain steps for the plan changes to be approved.  Missouri State Statute 105.665 govern substantial changes in pension plans. If approved by the Library Board, the Library must engage Milliman to prepare an actuarial cost statement and submit this statement to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER is required to notify the public on all Pension Plans who have substantial changes. This is typically accomplished by a posting on their website.  The Library District waits 45 days and then the Plan change must be approved by the Library Board of Trustees.
The Library Administration recommends approval of changing the final average earnings from the current five-year to a three-year average for the pension benefit calculation and approves the submission of the proposed amendment and actuarial cost statement to JCPER as required by State Statute. Following the 45-day posting, the Library Board will take final action at the January 27, 2025 Library Board meeting on the Pension Board’s recommendation for implementation to be effective January 1, 2025. The Library Board unanimously approved the Administration’s recommendation (Barry/Patterson).
2025 BUDGET
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following informational item.
The 2025 Budget document was prepared and approved by the Budget
Committee consisting of the following individuals:
Kristen Sorth – Director & CEO
Laura Taylor – Chief Financial Officer
Eric Button – Deputy Director
Gib Van Cleve – Assistant Director, ITS
Jennifer Gibson – Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives
Kelli Reeves – Manager, Facilities
The 2025 Budget document is attached.  The Library Budget is a spending guideline for the upcoming year. Projects discussed in the Budget document will be individually presented to the Library Board for review and approval during 2025 as outlined in the Library Board’s By-Laws. The Budget Revision is presented to the Library Board in September.
The Library Board of Trustees set the 2024 tax rates at $0.1870 for Residential assessments, $0.2310 for Agricultural assessments, $0.2340 for Commercial assessments and $ 0.2600 for
Personal Property assessments. These rates will provide 92% of the cash income to operate in
2025. The Executive Summary includes a synopsis of the proposed 2025 Budget.
In 2025, the Library District will have a $500,000 surplus in the Maintenance and Operation Budget with a transfer of funds from the Assigned for Capital Improvements Fund.
The 2025 Budget is an informational item for this month in order to give the Library Board of Trustees time to review the document and ask questions.  The Budget Committee would like to receive your questions by December 6 so we may respond accordingly before the December Library Board Meeting. The Library Board of Trustees will vote on the 2025 Library Budget at the December Meeting. That vote will allow the Library to operate in 2025.
Dr. Wang said this was an informational item and asked the Board if they had any questions.
Dr. Beckwith asked about the range increase 0-6%. Ms. Sorth said it came from Lockton and explained it does not come from the committee.
MANAGED DETECTION AND RESPONSE
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS, presented the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a 24-month contract for Managed Detection and Response (MDR) cybersecurity services.  An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was issued for MDR services to solicit competitive bids.  This was a requirement of the cybersecurity grant that Jennifer Gibson, the Library’s Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, acquired in February from the Missouri Department of Public Safety, Office of Homeland Security.  Lashly & Baer was involved in the IFB process.  The IFB was posted on the Library’s website and advertised in both the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and St. Louis American.
The Library has over 2,600 network devices connected throughout the District.  Examples include: PCs, servers, phones, security cameras, printers, copiers, network switches, firewalls, wireless access points, overhead paging devices and many others.  Each of these devices are a potential cybersecurity vulnerability.  An MDR cybersecurity service will watch over the Library’s network, searching for malicious network traffic patterns. MDR services can improve the District’s security posture by constantly monitoring the Library’s network and key systems.
The IFB was posted on September 17, 2024 and responses were due on October 16, 2024.  The Library received ten responses which were reviewed by myself, four members of ITS and Jennifer Gibson. Listed below are the top three companies selected by the team.  GFI’s proposal for Arctic Wolf was the lowest and best Bid.
			Ranking
			Vendor
			Product
			1st Year
			2nd Year
			24 Months
			1st
			GFI
			Artic Wolf
			$57,920.70
			$57,920.70
			$115,841.40
			2nd
			Avalon
			Avalon Cyber
			$186,707.00
			$176,707.00
			$363,414.00
			3rd
			CAI
			LMNTRIX
			$165,000.00
			$165,000.00
			$330,000.00
Library Administration recommends GFI’s Arctic Wolf as the lowest and best bid for Managed Detection and Response cybersecurity services at a cost of $115,841.40 for 24 months which will improve the District’s cybersecurity posture, and that the Board authorize the Director to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. The cybersecurity grant will cover 75% of this cost or $86,881.05. The remaining 25% will be paid from the 2025 and 2026 ITS budgets. There was a matching requirement for this grant. The Library Board unanimously approved the Administration’s recommendation (Beckwith/Patterson).
DOCUMENT RETENTION POLICY
Ms. Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following.
Library Administration and Library Legal Counsel are in the process of updating various Board Policies.  As was discussed previously, the policies will be presented to the Board for review at Board Meetings in 2024 and 2025.  The Library’s Document Retention Policy has not been revised or restated since the original adoption of the policy in 2011.  Many of the changes involve the use of current titles, best practices and reflect the operation of a public library in 2024.  Several changes have been made in accordance with current state law.
The records of the Library are important assets vital to the proper functioning of the Library. The
Library’s records include virtually all of the records produced by employees, whether in
electronic or paper form.  The goals of this Policy are to:
	Retain important documents for reference and future use;
	Delete documents that are no longer necessary for the proper functioning of the Library;
	Organize important documents for efficient retrieval; and
	Ensure that employees know what documents should be retained, the length of their retention, means of storage, and when and how they should be destroyed.
The complete restatement of the Document Retention Policy is attached.
Library Administration recommends Board approval of the restated Document Retention Policy. The Library Board unanimously approved the Administration’s recommendation (Barry/Beckwith).
ADJOURNMENT
Dr. Beckwith made a motion to adjourn meeting. A seconded was made by Joan Barry.
All approved with voice vote: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith.
Meeting adjourned at 4:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                  _____________
Joan Barry                                                                   Date
Secretary