{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBSTK9779229",
  "date": "2025-08-18T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, AUGUST 18, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, August 18, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
May Scheve Reardon
Mr. Wang introduced May Scheve Reardon as the newly appointed Board Member. Mrs. Scheve Reardon spoke about her background and said she was honored to be asked to be on the St. Louis County Board of Trustees.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Sneha Rajan, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Amy Gibbons, Miriam Whatley, Matt Lakin, Trista Doyle, Hannah Axt, Sarah Kuntz Jones, Kelli Reeves, Nicole Clawson, Spring Galey, Stacy Berger, Nora Marino, Melissa Bauer, Ja’Mel McCain, Anne Bradley, Brent Trout, Carrie Robb, Andrea Carter, Marianne Atkinson, Cameron Riesenberger, Michelle Hawkins, Darien Jones, Melissa Hupp, Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Mary Arnhart, Nikole Brown, Alaina Culbertson, Emily Althoff, Tarza Tawfiq, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
Administration recommends approval of the minutes from July 21, 2025.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
ADJOURN FOR TAX HEARING
Motion to adjourn regular meeting to convene tax hearing.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
TAX HEARING
The tax hearing began at 3:30 p.m.
INFORMATIONAL ITEM
Johnny Wang asked if anyone had any statement to make regarding the tax hearing. No one came forward to speak to the Board.
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the preliminary tax levy information.
Per State statute, the information was posted at least seven days ahead of time at all the branches on August 7, 2025. The final tax rates will be set at the September Board meeting after the Board of Equalization sets the final assessments. Tax rates must be set by October 1, 2025.
Motion to adjourn Tax Hearing and resume regular meeting.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one to speak before the board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for July 2025.
Administration recommends approval of the July Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Ted Sanditz, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth welcomed May Scheve Reardon to the Library Board of Trustees.  She shared that May had met with many Library Administrators and Board President, Johnny Wang, for new Board Member orientation.
Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for July.
	July was a month of strong engagement with notable gains in in-person visits, expanded eMedia usage, and significant increases in programming and community services. Public computer and Wi-Fi sessions increased and thousands of new patrons registered for Library cards.  In July 2025, St. Louis County Library welcomed 307,451 visitors across its branches and bookmobiles.  This is a 1% increase over July of 2024.  Several locations saw significant increases, including Prairie Commons Branch with a 12% increase and Florissant Valley Branch with an 11% increase in visitors.  The Clark Family Branch remains the system’s busiest location, attracting 40,288 visitors. The History and Genealogy Department had 5,434 visitors, and 146 patrons utilized the Digitization Room and Personal History Recording Studio.  The Creative Lab drew 4,223 visitors. Of those, 309 used specialized equipment such as the 3D printer, large format printer, Cricut, and Glowforge. Since June, when the Library expanded the ePopUp Library collection to Ranken Jordan Pediatric Bridge Hospital, Ronald McDonald House Charities, Shriners Children’s St. Louis, SSM Health Cardinal Glennon Children’s Hospital, and St. Louis Children’s Hospital, there have been 1,061 checkouts.  A total of 6,179 patrons registered for a Library card in July 2025. Sixty-six percent of last year’s newly registered users have remained active. The Clark Family Branch registered the highest number of patrons in July, with 641 new library cards created. The Daniel Boone Branch had the next highest number, with 307 registrations.  SLCL branches provided notary services to 2,712 patrons in July 2025 which is an increase of 39% over July 2024. In addition, branches gave out 1,159 COVID tests, 48 Narcan kits, and 63 gun locks. The Operation Food Search Library Pantry served 181 patrons. The Business Recovery Center served 61 patrons, and 413 patrons were assisted with FEMA disaster recovery.  In July, 1,450 diaper packs and 381 period supplies were distributed. There are a total of 390 Gateway to Reading kits in the Library’s collection, along with 134 games. Since the kits were added in February 2025, they have circulated 2,090 times. The games, added in July 2025, have a total circulation of 429 which is incredible. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1c)
	The Library has executed a three-year funding agreement with Children’s Services Fund (CSF) for the continuation and expansion of the Community Resource Initiative.  This funding will support the social workers at the current six locations, and it includes funding for a seventh social worker who will be located at the Natural Bridge Branch.  Katie Lappe, the Lead Social Worker who is currently assigned to Natural Bridge, will shift her focus from providing direct services to leading and supporting the other six social workers.  In addition, the funding will also support hiring three part-time practicum students who will be supervised by Katie and other Library social workers.  The practicum students will focus much of their time on following up with clients to measure outcomes and provide additional support as needed.  CSF has committed a guaranteed $1,094,296.08 over three years with the potential for greater support if the percentage of minors served by the social workers increases substantially. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the ePopUp Library collection has expanded to two additional hospital sites that serve children and their families.  Mercy Kids, at the main Mercy Hospital, and Haven House have joined the program and will have access to the children and teen collection for their patients and the overall collection for the parents and family members. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library will be partnering with St. Louis County and other local organizations to help inform residents about the benefits that may be available to them under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA).  The Library will play a critical role in the promotional campaign and will also assist people in locating documentation to prove their eligibility.  She and Eric Button met with several individuals from St. Louis County to discuss our ideas for both in-person and virtual programming, as well as providing information on our website and providing assistance in the branches to those seeking documentation.  She said we hope to have these programs scheduled soon. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3a, 3c)
	Megan Phifer-Davis, Manager of Information Services and the Small Business Center, was asked to be the closing keynote speaker at the online Amigos Conference. The theme of the conference is Libraries Cultivating Community. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 2d)
	This is the second year the Library will host the Small Business Launchpad, which is an entrepreneur program for formerly incarcerated individuals. The program will provide concrete skills for individuals with prior state or federal convictions who are interested in starting their own business. Participants will learn how to write a business plan, understand financing and marketing for small businesses, and create an elevator pitch to present to potential funders at the final pitch event. Participants will also have an opportunity to connect with organizations in the community that provide support to new businesses and learn about free resources available from the Library. This year, the Library received 29 qualified applications and 14 aspiring entrepreneurs were invited to join the 2025 cohort. The pitch competition will take place on Wednesday, August 27th at Clark Family Branch. Those selected will receive start up dollars courtesy of the Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 3b)
	The Library’s Novel Creations program received 59 applicants this year.  Those selected were invited to take part in this 8-week marketing series. The series starts in September and culminates in a Pop-Up Market at the Clark Family Branch. This year, the market will be held on Small Business Saturday on November 29th. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Library has added Lexia Learning to its complement of digital resources.  The new database is a tool designed to accelerate literacy development for K-12 students and is a great supplement to the Library’s popular Gateway to Reading Kits. Grounded in the Science of Reading, Lexia provides systematic instruction through engaging, game-based activities. The program is highly adaptive, automatically placing learners at the right level and adjusting instruction as they master new skills. This personalized learning approach is effective for students of all abilities. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, 2b, 2d)
	Genealogy University will open for registration in August.  In this returning program, participants may attend any four History and Genealogy programs from September - November.  Graduates will receive a MyHeritage DNA test kit upon completion.  Also returning to H&G is the popular Local History Expo which will be held at the Clark Family Branch on September 6th.  Representatives from over thirty St. Louis-area local historical societies and repositories will be available to discuss their work in documenting, preserving and promoting history. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d)
	Recently, History & Genealogy partnered with Anderson Archival to digitize materials that were not easily accessible to patrons.  The first phase of this partnership consisted of digitizing over 170 maps for the H&G Department for free. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth reported that this summer, the Bookmobile and Mobile Services Department served 30 schools with six new locations added to the 2025 summer schedule due to the functionality of the new bookmobiles.   The total circulation for summer service was 15,731, which was a significant increase from last summer. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Over 525 people recently attended the 2nd Annual Backstage Pass: Introducing The Rep’s New Season at the Clark Family Branch, featuring entertaining sneak peeks of the upcoming mainstage and studio productions. The Rep was very pleased with the successful event, reporting good results with selling season tickets and passes after the event. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 3a)
	Patrons will be able to take a shuttle from the Florissant Valley Branch on select Sunday afternoons to see the mainstage shows at the Repertory Theatre of St. Louis. Tickets are $30 per passenger or $125 for all five matinee shows. This is the third season for the shuttle to The Rep program, and it continues to grow every year. The Soldiers Memorial Shuttle also continues through the rest of 2025, with shuttles departing from Grant’s View, Clark Family and Daniel Boone Branches before the end of the year. Tickets are $15 per passenger for the Soldiers Memorial Shuttle. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said during the month of August, the Library is accepting submissions for the annual Listen Up STL compilation. Musicians from the St. Louis area are encouraged to submit their work for inclusion in the Library’s collection via Biblioboard, a platform dedicated to showcasing and publishing patron-created content. Since launching Listen Up STL, the Library has included 388 albums in the collection. Rock is the most represented genre, with 67 albums, followed by folk with 53 albums. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d)
	This year the Youth Services Department, in collaboration with St. Louis Public Library, brought back Battle of the Bands. Sixteen teen bands submitted an original song for a chance to compete in the live Battle of the Bands at the Clark Family Branch on Friday, August 1. With over 200 fans cheering them on, the five selected bands played live sets and were judged on musical ability, originality and stage presence. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library’s first Explorer Summer Camps were a success. The Library hosted six week-long sessions serving 68 campers. Twenty-six campers (38%) utilized the round-trip shuttle service from the Natural Bridge and Weber Road branches, a service that was critical for their ability to attend. The free full-day camps ran Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., with lunch provided for all participants. The camps offered unique learning opportunities in three distinct areas: Makerspace Exploration, Entrepreneurship & Product Design, and History Detective. Designed to be both educational and engaging, the camps provided immersive experiences for youths aged 12-17, who were selected for camp through a lottery process.  Hosted at the Clark Family Branch, the camps were a collaborative effort, including the OCI Creative Lab, the Emerson History & Genealogy Center, and the Small Business Center. Their collaborative effort and dedication have been instrumental in creating a hands-on, educational, and meaningful experience for these young people.  Feedback from both campers and their parents has been exceptionally positive. Participant surveys show an average experience rating of 5 out of 5 stars, with campers specifically noting that they made new friends and gained significant knowledge about their chosen topics and the Library's broader services.  Ms. Sorth shared some of the comments from the surveys:
		This camp was fantastic. I truly can’t believe the quality of the camp, the experience, the instructors, and the food - at no cost!!! My husband and I are both teachers, and our money is tight. This experience gave our son something we wouldn’t have been able to afford elsewhere. Libraries are magical!!!
		This was an amazing experience. Thank you to everyone that organized the camp and shared so much amazing information with my son.
		As a parent I am so thankful to Clark Family for sponsoring the camp and I am thankful to everyone who organized the camp. Camp exceeded mine and my child’s expectations. It was very thoughtfully organized. I hope my child gets to participate in future camps,
		This was a wonderful opportunity for our children to be exposed to different types of technology. The independence in riding the shuttle, the provided food, an all day camp and no cost were all major motives for enrolling in the camp.
Camp Details
Makerspace Exploration Camps took place the week of June 9th and July 21st with a total of 23 campers exploring a wide range of hands-on creative and tech experiences, including 3D modeling, music production and songwriting with local artist Ryan Marquez, and coding with Raspberry Pi and Scratch in partnership with the Unity Foundation. They also learned the fundamentals of storyboarding and filmmaking, tried out the Glowforge laser cutter, and discovered careers in gaming through an exciting session with the BGG Foundation.
History Detective Camps took place the week of June 23th and July 21st with a total of 22 campers learning how to do genealogical and local history research, with the goal of creating either a family tree or a local history display for the department. They also got to hear from guest speakers about how DNA helps solve crimes and how it’s used in genealogy. Campers played a life-sized Oregon Trail and tracked down the eccentric genealogist who left clues to a hidden “fortune” of 100 Grand bars, gold coin chocolates, and edible paper money. The week wrapped up with a field trip to the Missouri History Museum, where campers learned how curators build exhibits, how conservation works, and more. They finished the day exploring old documents at the Missouri Historical Society Research Center.
The Entrepreneurship & Product Design Explorer Camps took place the week of June 23 and August 4th, with a total of 23 campers diving into the world of business and innovation. They explored how to develop and pitch a business idea, create a business canvas, present themselves professionally, prototype using clay and 3D software, and create marketing and pricing strategies. Activities included combining common products into new inventions, improving existing items, and pitching their dream business ideas to the whole camp. A highlight was the Price is Right game, Shopping Spree, where campers put items in order by price and discussed what goes into pricing a product. They also enjoyed a brand-themed Jeopardy game featuring logos, slogans and apps. Campers stayed highly engaged throughout, applying their ideas to prototyping, ad creation, business portfolios and final presentations. A Poster Session presentation was added to the second camp where campers made posters to highlight different aspects of their businesses. Two more ads were made:
		Triple M’z Lawn Service
		Tasty Times Food Truck (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 2a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	Ms. Sorth reported that The Tap In Center continues to grow, as was discussed at the Board Meeting last month. Since that meeting, Kirkwood has agreed to partner with the Tap In Center. Starting this month, the Library is able to serve people who have a bench warrant issued in Kirkwood. The TIC continues to assist with bench warrants issued in St. Louis County Circuit Court (felony and misdemeanor cases only) and the municipalities of Manchester, Florissant, University City, and Webster Groves. We are also able to assist people who have bench warrants in the St. Louis City Circuit Court and Municipal Court through our second Tap In Center location.  Tuesday, August 5th, was the biggest night ever at the TIC.  Over fifty people visited in person in addition to those that were assisted over the phone bringing the total served that week to 113 people with over 300 warrant recalls requested. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Coding 101, which is presented by the Youth Services Department, will return this fall at the Florissant Valley and Daniel Boone branches. This free four-week workshop, sponsored by the Josh Seidel Memorial Foundation, teaches basic programming using Code.org. Upon graduation, students will receive a Chromebook and a t-shirt. In order to be eligible to earn a free computer, participants must attend every class. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
	The Eureka Hills Branch will host an After Hours Family Campout on Friday, August 22, from 6:00-9:00 p.m. This free event will feature hands-on experiences celebrating the great outdoors, including interactive exhibits from local organizations, visits with animals, performances for children, refreshments, a scavenger hunt, selfie stations, and more. Last year over 650 people attended the event.  Attendees can learn about outdoor related items that can be checked out at the Library, including telescopes, binoculars, pickleball kits, disc golf kits, portable projectors, and more. Books and other educational materials on outdoor related topics will also be available. A variety of exhibitors will be on hand with information and other fun activities including the Alpine Shop, Endangered Wolf Center, Eureka Parks and Recreation, KOA, Missouri Department of Conservation, Missouri State Parks, and the St. Louis Astronomical Society. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth announced that the Library and Operation Food Search are partnering again this year to provide After School Meals to children at four branches.  The Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons and Weber Road branches will serve a healthy, light meal along with activities for kids and teens Monday–Friday during the school year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 3a, 3c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Baby Art Crawl at Daniel Boone, The Floor is Lava at Grant’s View, Baby and Me at Grant’s View, the Wicked of Oz at Daniel Boone and Pizza Fridays at Florissant Valley.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Ms. Sorth shared the following impact stories:
	In partnership with the Conflict Resolution Center, the Library hosted a teen mediation series.  These sessions introduce teens to the skills they need to uncover the root causes of their disputes and together decide on fair ways of resolving conflict. Teens trained to become Peer Mediators and learned to help other students through conflicts.  From the presenter, “Hi Natural Bridge Team! Thank you so much for having me this summer! As I told many of you, I grew up going to the Natural Bridge Branch, and it was so fun to be back! I felt honored at how open and willing to participate the teens were. It was a pleasure to get to know them. I would not have had their participation or buy in from them without you all! I could tell from how they responded to staff that they feel safe and respected at the library. That was awesome to see. Thank you again for having me and supporting CRCSTL in teaching kids about peer mediation and conflict resolution.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
	From FEMA regarding the Library assisting and hosting FEMA in their efforts to meet with people following the tornado: “I just wanted to send a note of thanks for the support you and the library staff provided for FEMA DRC operations.  From set-up on the first day, to yesterday’s operational closure, your staff at both library locations were welcoming, helpful, and truly amazing, and it has been very much appreciated! Also, as promised, below are the final survivor visit totals for each of the library locations, as reported by FEMA DRC operations:
		Prairie Commons Library, DRC open 6/27 – 7/24/25  – 227 visits
		Mid-County Library,  DRC open 7/01 – 7/24/25    – 186 visits
Thank you again for everything!  It has been a pleasure working with you.” (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Here is an excerpt from a letter of support regarding a grant application for the St. Louis Storytelling Festival.  “I am writing to express my support for the St. Louis County Library grant application toward funding the 2026 St. Louis Storytelling Festival. I will briefly let you know about my own career in order to illuminate the statement that follows about this application. I am the 2022 West Virginia Folk Artist of the Year, have keynoted the Sydney (Australia) International Storytelling Conference, will appear at the US National Storytelling Festival this fall for the fourth time, and have headlined major storytelling and arts events in more than thirty states. I say that to let you know that the St. Louis Storytelling Festival has some of the greatest reach of any storytelling event I’ve experienced. This speaks for the type of venues covered, the demographics and amounts of people reached, and the merging of traditional and contemporary arts in direct reflection of a wide range of American culture that is presented. This is an event that is deeply rooted in community history and continues to produce new growth with fresh tendrils through the area.  Such stakeholders have collaborated to provide storytelling experiences with a great range of storytellers and breadth of topics to schools, prisons, cultural sites, and community organizations. The impact is so great that I recall, while visiting one of the sites last year, an elementary school teacher told me with joy that their school was enthused to be one of the schools selected; they had tried several years to be one of the coveted sites chosen for a storyteller visit. I have received nothing but positivity and gratitude from the ranges of audiences I have experienced at the Festival, and that praise is directed through me to the St Louis County Library for this creative, meaningful reach of their services. It is a fresh way of considering library service that should be reiterated through the nation. The community appreciates and values this provision, and it proves to be an enormous, irreplaceable cultural event. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2b, 3d)
Library Administrative Updates
	The Holiday Schedule for 2026 is attached.  The list of holidays was approved by the Library Board for inclusion in the Personnel Manual.
	Ms. Sorth shared that during the pandemic and after, the Library has partnered with St. Louis County’s Department of Human Services (DHS).  Eric Button, Katie Lappe, Lead Social Worker, and Ms. Sorth met with several representatives from DHS at the Natural Bridge Branch to discuss how we can continue with the partnership.  From that meeting, DHS provided several items such as personal hygiene items, food and water bottles to our social workers to use when meeting with patrons.  She said we are very thankful for the partnership. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The Employee Engagement Committee’s (EEC) goal is to support a work environment where every employee feels valued, empowered, and inspired. The EEC encourages employees’ involvement and presents activities that boost the Library’s workplace culture, as well as the emotional and social well-being of employees. The EEC will plan, schedule and execute the event. Ms. Sorth announced Employee Engagement Day is scheduled for Monday, October 13, at the Clark Family Branch.  All full-time employees are required to attend.  Attendance is optional for those who are part-time.  A recommendation for the closure of the Library District will be presented later in the meeting. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	Communications is working on a number of materials for the upcoming Branch Out Challenge taking place September 2 - October 31. Designer Tay Tuteur made drawings of each branch, which will be converted into stickers and coloring sheets. They also made a Branch Out passport, which features the branch drawing, fun facts and an explanation of the program. Bella Marcallini is making video tours of each branch to share on social media. A press release and media outreach will begin later this month.  (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2c, 2d)
	This fall, Adult Services Librarian Sarah Steele will teach a series of employee training classes about assisting patrons in finding books and other materials. Sarah will cover quick techniques and fundamentals in “Intro to Readers Advisory” in September. In October, employees will get a deeper dive into resources and longer conversations with readers in “Readers Advisory II.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, Sense of Community 1d)
	Ms. Sorth shared on August 5th that she served as a judge for the finalist pitch day for Arch Grants.  Since 2012, Arch Grants has fueled ideas shaping St. Louis’ future. Their unique venture philanthropy model provides critical startup capital and access to a robust support network for entrepreneurs.  Arch Grants provides up to $100,000 in equity-free grants and access to an ecosystem of resources, helping early-stage startups grow and scale. The annual startup competition was held at St. Louis University and includes judges from civic, cultural, educational, private and nonprofit organizations.  She served with several other judges in the EdTech startup category.  She said it was an incredible experience and she was able to talk with many entrepreneurs who have ideas for businesses that are applicable to the Library. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth, along with two other Library Directors in Missouri, recently met with a representative from Representative Ann Wagner’s office at the request of the American Library Association (ALA). ALA’s Public Policy and Advocacy office is working to educate Congress on the E-Rate hotspots program to ensure that it continues.  The program is vital to schools and public libraries. They were asked to talk about our hotspot lending experience, the impact on the community, and why our libraries applied for the E-Rate program.  For SLCL, we have 332 regular hotspots with 476 holds and 110 bookable hotspots, with about one-fourth of them available currently.  At our current pricing, the Library spends approximately $144,000 per year to support 400 hotspots.  If SLCL received the 40% eRate reimbursement on that amount, that would save $57,600 per year.  She also shared direct feedback we have received from patrons on how the hotspots have assisted them. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Ms. Sorth shared that the plans for the new Chesterfield Branch were unanimously approved by the Chesterfield Planning Commission and the City Council.  This is the final step in the approval process with the City.  The City of Chesterfield has been a great partner on this project.  The design process is moving along.  The Library’s architect, LJC, should be finished with the construction document set in early October. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	As reported to the Board last month, the extreme heat this summer has created issues for the Library’s HVAC systems at several branches.  Building Systems replaced a compressor in one of the two condensing units last month at Weber Road Branch.  Once the unit was up and running, the other compressor failed.  Library employees were able to purchase a second new unit through a negotiated contract.  (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The new Trane rooftop units for the Lewis & Clark Branch Computer Lab HVAC upgrades have been ordered but there is a lengthy lead time.  The work for this project will not begin until early November due to the delayed arrival of the parts. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The Library’s Mobile Print system allows patrons to print directly from their personal wireless devices. New Mobile Print features were made available to the public in late 2024. The new features along with the promotion of the system has led to significant adoption by patrons.  In July alone, Mobile Print saw 1,261 unique users submit over 6,400 print jobs. (Plan: Increase Access 1)
	Ms. Sorth reported that she has been working with the family that owns the property next to the Clark Family Branch to discuss parking during large Library events in the evening.  After much discussion, they have agreed to allow Library patrons to park on their property in the evening after the business located there is closed.  We have provided insurance documents as requested.  The Library is so thankful to the Schneithorst Family for supporting the Library in this way. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation and Grants
	The Foundation hosted its first Popped from the Page fundraiser on Saturday, August 9th at the Clark Family Branch. Ms. Sorth reported that we had 158 guests in attendance and raised over $108,000. This was a new format for the annual fundraiser and will alternate years with the traditional gala. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 1b, 2c)
	The Foundation web store will officially launch on October 3rd. Available items will range from branded t-shirts to Library totes and swag. An official announcement will be made in the fall Foundation Newsletter as well as in an email to donors/supporters, social media posts and a press release. Proceeds from sales will go to support Library programming.  (Plan: Increase Access 1b, 2b, 2c)
	Library and Foundation Grants
		The Library Foundation received a $24,722 grant from Missouri Arts Council to support the 2025 St. Louis Storytelling Festival.
		The Library received a $750 grant and access to screeners of The American Revolution, a new Ken Burns documentary premiering in November 2025, from WETA (the leading public broadcasting station in Washington, D.C.).  Only 40 libraries were selected for this grant out of 440 applications.  We plan to partner with Nine PBS and the History Museum on this national engagement campaign for the sweeping six-part, 12-hour series from Ken Burns, Sarah Botstein, and David Schmidt that explores the rich, complex origins of the United States.  We plan to create meaningful programming that connects the St. Louis community to the series’ central themes of liberty, democracy, civic engagement, and storytelling.  As a participating Library we will receive the following:
			$750 in grant funding
			Access to themed screening reels from the series
			A promotional toolkit via our dedicated Brandfolder
			Discussion guides and event templates
			Online tools and resources (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
		Ms. Sorth said a few months ago, the social workers received a book a social worker form from Healthy Blue MO which is one of the three managed care Medicaid providers in the State.  Katie Lappe, the Lead Social Worker, met with the Program Manager who runs the charitable arm of Healthy Blue and quickly realized that they didn't want to partner but instead wanted to support the social worker program at the Library.  She met with the individual and talked about the social worker program and our plans for expansion.  The meeting went very well and they were very interested in supporting the program.  This past week, she finalized an agreement with Healthy Blue.  They have donated $50,000 to support the social worker program at the Library. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Five presentation proposals submitted by SLCL employees were accepted for the Public Library Association Conference in Minneapolis April 1-3, 2026. Nearly 600 proposals were submitted from libraries throughout the country.
		“Gateway to Reading: Boosting Literacy with Resource Kits and Workshops” (Presenters: Kristen Sorth, Nicole Clawson, Laura Polak, and Meredith Murray from Booksource)
		“Reentry Starts Here: Building Services for Justice-Impacted People” (Presenter: Miranda Gibson)
		“Wrangling Reservations: Ensuring Equitable Access to Your Library of Things” (Presenters: Sarah Steele, Marlee Keeven, and Kendall Kidder Goshorn from Chicago Public Library)
		“Storytelling Festivals: Build Community Connections on Large or Small Scales” (Presenters: Becky Maue, Courtney Waters and Angie Bayne from Missouri River Regional Library)
		“Retaining a Diverse Library Workforce: The You Belong Project” (Presenters: Jennifer Gibson, April Roy from KCPL, and Charlene Oldham from Jefferson County Library) Note: This is an MLA project but the You Belong Project Director and 3 of 5 You Belong Scholars are SLCL employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, Increase Access 2c)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth gave an update on the Author Series - Year to date:
# of authors: 107
Attendance: 25,575
2024 totals: 144 authors/33,000 attendees
	The Library recently partnered with the Tennessee Williams Festival St. Louis on “Streetcar & Beyond,” a 10th Anniversary Season Preview event. Over 115 theater and literature fans enjoyed presentations by festival Artistic Director Carrie Houk, director Michael James Reed, and the set and costume designers and cast members of "A Streetcar Named Desire.” Festival Scholar Tom Mitchell also presented on his new book “Early Stories by Tennessee Williams” which features newly discovered short stories that take place in St. Louis and Missouri. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, 3d)
	The line-up for the 2025 St. Louis Teen Book Festival will be announced in late-August. The all-day festival will take place Saturday, December 6 and will include a keynote presentation by YA author Angeline Boulley, multiple panel events with our 15+ visiting authors, food trucks, activities, and a book signing session. Other confirmed featured authors include Maggie Stiefvater, Nick Brooks, E. Lockhart, Becky Albertalli, and more! We are hoping to surpass last year’s festival attendance of 750. Clark Family Branch will be closed Saturday, December 6 for the Teen Book Festival. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
Tickets are on sale now for fall events with:
	#1 bestselling fantasy author Holly Black - Sunday, September 28 – Clark Family Branch
	Bestselling suspense author Elizabeth George - Friday, October 3 – Clark Family Branch
	Reese Witherspoon and Harlan Coben – Friday, October 15 – Stifel Theater
	Popular YA historical fiction author Alan Gratz - Thursday, October 16 - Clark Family Branch
	Award-winning YA author and former National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature Jason Reynolds - Friday, October 17 - Clark Family Branch
	Bestselling horror novelist Joe Hill - Wednesday, October 22 - Clark Family Branch
September 2025 Author Events
	Aaron Reynolds, author of “Troubling Tonsils!,” Tuesday, September 2 2025, 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Lia Holter, author of “Made. by Lia: Everyday Craft Baking,” Thursday, September 4, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Jane O’Connor and Robin Preiss Glasser, author and illustrator of “Fancy Nancy: Besties for Eternity,” Sunday, September 14, 2025, 10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ann Napolitano, author of “A Good Hard Look,” Monday, September 15, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Justin Driver, author of “The Fall of Affirmative Action: Race, the Supreme Court and the Future of Higher Education,” Tuesday, September 16, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Amanda Uhle, author of “Destroy This House: A Memoir,” Thursday, September 18, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Angie Thomas, author of “Nic Blake and the Remarkables: The Book of Anansi,” Saturday, September 20, 2025, 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Joan Strassmann, author of “The Social Lives of Birds: Flocks, Communes and Families,” Wednesday, September 24, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ally Carter, author of “The Blonde Who Came In From the Cold,” Friday, September 26, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Holly Black, author of “Thief of Night’ Sunday, September 28, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family
OLD BUSINESS
EPWORTH CHILDREN AND FAMILY SERVICES CONTRACT
Eric Button, Deputy Director, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommends that the Board authorize the Library Director and CEO to enter into and execute an agreement with Epworth Children and Family Services for the continuation and expansion of social worker services from August 1, 2025 through July 31, 2028 at an approximate cost of $1,961,439.83. These expenses are covered by the funding from CSF and other private funding sources.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
NEW BUSINESS
2025 STRATEGIC ACTIVITIES UPDATE
Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director of Strategic Planning, provided an update on the progress of SLCL’s strategic plan. She outlined the three pillars and reviewed the first seven months of programming that supports these initiatives.
Dr. Beckwith asked if we continue to support DEI, how much state funding could we potentially lose? Ms. Sorth responded.
LIBRARY BOARD ORGANIZATION
Ms. Sorth presented the recommendation. Per the Library Board's Bylaws, officers of the Board will need to be elected to serve for the next 12 months. The secretary's office is vacant because Joan Barry held that position. She turned it over to Mr. Wang.
Mr. Wang asked if there were any recommendations. Dr. Beckwith recommended that May Scheve Readon be nominated for the Secretary position and all other officeholders maintain their current positions.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
LIBRARY BOARD MEETING DATES – 2026
Kristen presented the recommendation.
The Administration recommends approval of the 2026 Board meeting dates and locations as presented.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
BOARD BYLAWS - CODE OF ETHICS
Kristen presented the recommendation.  State Statute provides that the Board must approve an ethics policy governing the filing of disclosure reports every two years. The approved policy must be sent to the Missouri Ethics Commission by September 1st.
Library Administration recommends approval of the attached resolution as reviewed by the attorneys at Lashly & Baer.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
LIBRARY CLOSURE - EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DAY
Kristen presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommends the closure of all Library locations on October 13, 2025, for Employee Engagement Day.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
ADJOURNMENT
Motion to adjourn
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Meeting Adjourned at 4:41 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
May Scheve Reardon                                                              Date
Secretary