{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBSTPS786050",
  "date": "2025-11-17T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, November 17, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
May Scheve Reardon, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director, Roberto Münster, CAO, Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Elizabeth Eisele, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Katie Keeven, Lindsey Piech, Kim Ford, Marianne Atkinson, Terence McCoy, Crystal Harris, Chasidy Allen, Cameron Riesenberger, Anne Bradley, Darien Jones, Emma Figueroa, Allison Wisniewski, Andrea Carter, Lisa Haddox, Ja’Mel McCaine, Adeline Chow, Nicole Clawson, Kalin Preston, Brent Trout, Trista Doyle, Sarah Jones, Matt Lakin, Rebecca Clarke, Miranda Gibson, Nicole Walsh, Cheri Remington, Carrie Robb, Meredith Hopping, Amy Gibbons, Ashley Sexton, Spring Galey, Kelli Reeves, Annie Fuller, Deanna Davis, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Mary Arnhart, Stephanie Nordmann, Emily Althoff, Amy Hanaway, Tarza Tawfiq and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the September 29, 2025 Minutes.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
PUBLIC COMMENTS
No one spoke before the board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the September Treasurer’s Report.
Administration recommended the approval of the September Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the October Treasurer’s Report.
Administration recommended the approval of the October Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Ted Sanditz, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
	Ms. Sorth delivered the Dashboards for September and October. Overall, October 2025 was a strong month for the Library. Circulation and program attendance both showed notable growth compared to the previous year. While visits and new card registrations were lower than in 2024 due to the unique impact of early voting last year, several branches still experienced increases in visits.  Visits to Rock Road increased 7%, with 9,541 visitors. The Florissant Valley and Meramec Valley Branches both saw a 5% increase, with 13,615 visitors at Florissant Valley and 12,960 at Meramec Valley.  The Library hosted more than 4,000 programs in October 2025 that were attended by 61,443 patrons.  This is twice as many as in October 2024. The Pokémon Fan Fest at Grant’s View Branch welcomed 1,350 patrons, while 775 attended the Little Reader’s Festival at the Florissant Valley Branch. A total of 923 patrons participated in 37 All-Abilities programs, 356 seniors attended 21 senior programs, and 115 patrons attended 14 ESL, ESOL, or ELL courses.  In the ConnectEd program, local school districts have partnered with the Library to provide online database and eMedia access to students. There has been a strong response from schools in 2025. For the 2025-2026 school year, eighteen districts are participating.  A total of 57,907 student and staff accounts have been granted access for the 2025-2026 school year. For this school year, students have checked out nearly 3,000 titles through the program and they frequently use the Library’s online databases.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1c)
	The Online Notary Appointment service launched in October at four select branches: Clark Family Branch (2nd Floor Small Business), Florissant Valley Branch, Grand Glaize Branch, and Thornhill Branch. This service provides a convenient way for patrons to schedule notary services without waiting, as service at these locations is now by appointment only. Patrons use a software platform to schedule appointments, with bookings available from one day in advance up to two weeks out. The new system has proven beneficial for both employees and patrons. Employees report that the appointment-based solution allows for better scheduling and preparation. Patrons have commented on the platform's ease of use and have expressed appreciation for the guaranteed service time. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c)
	Ms. Sorth reported for more than a century, libraries across the country have relied on Baker & Taylor to fulfill orders for library materials.  The company announced that they will be going out of business completely in January due to financial challenges.  They have long held the majority of the market share in the industry.  A few years ago, SLCL ordered nearly 90% of its physical collection items from the vendor.  As some signs of trouble emerged prior to the company’s announcement, the Library began shifting purchasing to other vendors, but at the time of the announcement, they still held about 60% of all orders placed by the Library.  The Acquisitions team has been working to cancel these orders and replace them with other vendors.  The closure of Baker & Taylor is causing ripple effects throughout the library industry as other companies are struggling to ramp up to absorb the sudden influx of business.  Delays in the receipt of some titles are already being experienced.  It is anticipated that some disruptions will continue until the market recovers from the sudden shock.  Baker & Taylor also facilitated the Library’s ePopUp Collection. We are researching alternative options, but are concerned about the future of the program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
	Ms. Sorth announced the fourth school bookmobile arrived last week after a significant delay in its production.  Due to the structure of the contract, which stated that the vehicle would be delivered by May 31, 2025, the Library’s cost for this vehicle is expected to be reduced by approximately $100,000.  This vehicle, which is sponsored by the James S. McDonnell Family Foundation, will have a vinyl wrap applied.  The wrap will feature the imagery of the theme “Books are Magical,” which won the popular vote with Library patrons.  A ribbon cutting ceremony is planned for December 1 at Armstrong Elementary School in the Hazelwood School District. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2a)
	The 46th annual St. Louis Storytelling Festival kicked off on Monday, November 10 and runs through Sunday, November 16. Throughout the 7-day festival, the Library brought storytellers to over 50 schools and senior centers, and 25 public events at a variety of venues throughout the St. Louis region, including St. Louis County Library branch locations, the Missouri History Museum, Saint Louis Art Museum, Mirowitz Center and Work & Leisure. The festival featured nine national storytellers and four regional storytellers with programs for all-ages, workshops on telling your own stories, and storytelling events in partnership with The Repertory Theater of St. Louis, St. Louis Story Stitchers, Campfire and St. Louis County Library’s History and Genealogy Department. New additions to the 2025 line-up included a Spoken Word performance by the Saint Louis Story Stitchers, an Amateur Story Hour and a Cirque du Weiner Dog puppet show by What if Puppets. Last year’s attendance was over 11,500. A robust marketing campaign for the St. Louis Storytelling Festival ran from September through mid-November. Assets included print ads in the GO! and St. Louis American, radio ads on St. Louis Public Radio, KTRS, paid boosts on Facebook and Instagram, and a transit campaign on bus stops and Metrolink windscreens. Media outreach resulted in a spot on the FOX2 morning show, KMOX, an interview with St. Louis Magazine, KTRS, and the Ladue News. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Library has successfully implemented a new Interlibrary Loan (ILL) system called Tipasa which is a user-focused and easy-to-use ILL interface. It allows patrons to quickly and easily search the OCLC WorldCat database for items that are not in our SLCL/SLPL shared catalog or in the MOBIUS catalog, and then place the request immediately. Patrons are able to create and log into their Tipasa accounts using their Library card to track their requests’ progress. In addition, ILL employees can directly message patrons when requests need more information or are canceled for any reason. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
	The Library is currently hosting a collection drive in partnership with St. Louis County to support St. Louis County residents. The drive invites people to donate baby formula, diapers and wipes through any SLCL location. The drive wrapped up on November 12, however branches will continue to accept donations if they are received.  Our communities have proven, once again, to be incredibly generous. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	In September and October, the History & Genealogy (H&G) Department experienced a surge in activity, driven almost entirely by requests related to the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). This unprecedented demand significantly impacted employee workload, with September seeing 1,388 RECA lookups and providing 882 certification letters. In October, H&G processed 712 RECA lookups and provided 1,364 certification letters. Since August, the H&G staff have processed 2,873 RECA lookup submissions. RECA activity dramatically increased the use of print resources, which jumped 142.78% over 2024 with 1,487 items used in October alone. Digital platforms also saw high traffic, with the Digital Archive receiving over 24,500 page views in October, as patrons searched for RECA-related materials such as County Directories and Yearbooks. To support this effort, Brent Trout participated in a live virtual RECA session with community partners.  The H&G Department will begin training branch employees in November to better assist patrons with their claims. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared the annual Excel Adult High School graduation ceremony took place on Saturday, October 18th at 6:00 PM at the Clark Family Branch.  We celebrated the achievements of 26 graduates and enjoyed an inspiring keynote address from our own Sandy Williams, who reminded graduates that earning a diploma later in life is an honorable achievement and a powerful example for family and friends. The graduates' perseverance proves it’s never too late to reach your goals. For instance, valedictorian Shawntel Wright shared her inspiring story of raising and seeing six children through college before finally achieving her own milestone. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 3c)
	The Little Readers Festival took place on Saturday, September 27 from 10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. at the Florissant Valley Branch and Bangert Park. This was a free, fun festival for families with children ages 0-5 featuring activities, shaved ice, free books, musical performances, and story time. We welcomed 775 children and families to the event. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Increase Access 1b)
	In December, the Library will commemorate the 250th birthday of beloved author Jane Austen with a month-long series of themed programs that celebrate the charm and wit of literature’s most enduring voices. From tea parties, trivia, and craft sessions to film screenings, escape rooms, and literary games, there’s something for every Austen admirer. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 3c)
	On Friday, December 12, Adult Services and the History & Genealogy Department will host the fourth annual “Beercember: A Celebration of St. Louis Brewing History.” This year, guests can sample brews from 2nd Shift Brewing, Third Wheel Brewing, Six Mile Bridge Brewery, Old Bridgeview Brewing, Blue Jay Brewing Company, Two Plumbers Brewery + Arcade, and No Name Brewing Company. The event will also feature live music by Wolf Creek Bluegrass, a history presentation on St. Louis Beer Barons by Dan Fuller of Bellefontaine Cemetery, and a roundtable discussion exploring the modern brewing industry in St. Louis. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared the Library Foundation recently received a donation from The Bearman Family in memory of Thornhill patron Mike Bearman, with the intention of supporting accessibility for readers and book group members. The management and book group leaders at Thornhill consulted with the Readers Advisory employees in Adult Services to consider several options.  They have purchased five book discussion kits each consisting of twenty large print copies each. We have had growing demand for large print among kit users and these additional kits will support accessibility for book groups community-wide. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, Sense of Community 1b)
	To better support the workforce development needs of the community, Information Services introduced the "Job Readiness Drop-In" program in April 2025. This monthly service, available for two hours on the first Tuesday afternoon at the Clark Family Branch, invites job seekers to drop in for personalized assistance from a librarian. Patrons receive practical help with job search engines, resume templates, connecting with career coaches, and company research. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth announced the 2025 Small Business and Nonprofit Conference, held October 8–10, drew record participation with nearly 2,000 attendees across 53 sessions, 35% more than 2024. Feedback highlighted the conference’s diverse, high-quality content, knowledgeable speakers, and exceptional organization. Participants praised the Library’s valuable business resources and appreciated that the event was free, describing it as an “incredible public resource” offering “master classes” at no cost. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Increase Access 2)
	The Novel Creations program series, which concluded in October with 25 participants, will culminate in a Pop-Up Market on Saturday, November 29, at the Clark Family Branch from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. This market allows participants to sell their products and showcase the skills they learned.  Participants from the spring Teen Startup Studio program will also attend. The Library has been designated as a Small Business Neighborhood Champion for American Express' Small Business Saturday. This partnership includes a listing on the AmEx website as an official "Shop Small" event and provides the Library with promotional items to distribute to patrons. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth reported that starting in November, the Tap in Center will be able to refer patrons to a pro-bono attorney. The Holland Law Firm at The Hub has welcomed St. Louis County Library’s Tap in Center as one of their pro-bono partners. To be eligible, a patron must have a case within the St. Louis Metro area and live within the St. Louis Metro area. Legal services cover a wide range of issues, including personal injury and insurance disputes; civil rights and discrimination cases; consumer and debt relief; elder law and disability benefits; employment and workplace concerns; record expungement; family law matters such as divorce and custody; housing and tenant rights; and resolution of traffic tickets and warrants. The Tap in Center will have a special link to refer patrons to for pro-bono legal assistance. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
	On October 4, 295 bikers, walkers, and riders participated in the Library’s 2nd annual Bike the Branches on the Gravois Greenway: Grant’s Trail between the Oak Bend and Grant’s View Branches. The Library, in partnership with the Great Rivers Greenway, Sappington House, and the National Park Service, provided participants with a passport map at each branch. Participants collected stamps at each stop for a chance to earn prizes. The event kicked off with donuts and concluded with Gus’ pretzels. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth shared on Saturday, November 15, representatives from St. Louis County Library will attend St. Louis County’s Adoption Day. Employees will distribute Raise a Reader bags to each child/teen at their final adoption hearing that morning. Twenty-two adoptions are scheduled for the day. The Raise a Reader bags are sponsored by the St. Louis County Library Foundation. Bags are created for five different age groups and contain books, journals, and colored pencils along with Library information. To date, almost 700 bags have been created and donated to the County Courts for youth to receive at their final adoption hearing. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 2b)
	The 4th annual St. Louis Teen Book Festival will take place on Saturday, December 6 at the Clark Family Branch from 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. The Clark Family Branch will be closed to accommodate festival attendees.  The festival will feature book talks, author signings, and meet-and-greet opportunities with twenty amazing young adult authors, including Angeline Boulley, E. Lockhart and Soman Chainani. Books will be available for purchase from The Novel Neighbor. Last year 750 people attended the festival. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, Sense of Community 3b
	Ms. Sorth reported St. Louis County Library is hosting a Fresh Start Community Resource Fair on Wednesday, November 19 from 5:00-7:00 p.m. at Beyond Housing. The event brings together over 20 organizations offering vital resources to address the needs of our community. This event is designed to connect individuals and families with resources for reentry support, employment, housing, food assistance, healthcare, legal aid and more.  Attendees can also learn about a variety of resources available from St. Louis County Library, including meeting with a social worker, earning a high school diploma, technology assistance, computer classes, job search help, resume building, and small business development. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 2a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 2c)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Carmella Full of Wishes at Clark Family, Bike the Branches, Monster Parade at Grand Glaize, Cosplay Con at Daniel Boone, Star Party at Bridgeton Trails, Backyard Popout at Florissant Valley, Jefferson Elementary bookmobile visit, and Kindergarten Prep at Clark Family.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Ms. Sorth shared the following impact stories:
	Regarding the Small Business and Nonprofit Conference:  "This conference is an incredible resource that I can't believe is available to the public. I told my friends who live in other cities, and we all agreed this is a lovely way to use tax dollars for great use. Thank you to all of you for organizing such terrific programming with engaging speakers, and spending the time to share presentations with everyone." (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c)
	While working at Griffith Elementary, the employees on the bookmobile were approached by the school's custodian with a unique request. His daughter, who attended a different school, was trying to read three specific Truman or Mark Twain award-winning books to earn a special lunch with her school librarian, but she was on the holds list at her local branch. The father asked Ana if the Bookmobile might have any of the titles, and she was able to find two of the three books he needed. The father, who had his daughter's library card ready, was overjoyed, telling Ana, “Thank you so much, you don’t know how much this will mean to my daughter.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 2a)
	Regarding Book Buddies:
		This program “motivated my kindergarten daughter to start reading, and my 2nd grader also started reading a challenging book that was recommended by his big buddy. I would love it if this program continued the whole year.”
		“While working Bike the Branches at GV, a mom told me how much her kids love the library. Her sons are in Book Buddies and love it. One of them recently tested out of his reading intervention program at school and is up to grade level. The other scored a 99 on his Star Reading test, and the mom credits the library because of all the books they checked out over the summer.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a)
	A letter to the Digital Navigator at Cliff Cave from a patron.  “I would like to take this formal opportunity to express my deep and sincere gratitude for your kind help and warm treatment. The kind of positivity and respect you showed me as your customer has demonstrated that you have intact moral value fiber and the highest degree of passion and respect for your customer and profession. Your style of help and positive attitude that you have for customers and your profession is an asset to the public library. You are a seasoned professional in your field, and that will enable you to be a complete being, because you have checked yourself, and respected your responsibility and the engine of your profession. This is your passport in life and will take you anywhere and make a conversation of your life! For that and more every member of my faculty of minds owes you a special debt of gratitude. I wish you the very best in the future and all the happiness, hope and joy that life can bring in every word of the sense!” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth announced that we are so thrilled to finally be able to announce these amazing recipients of awards from the Missouri Library Association (MLA).  These awards were presented at the MLA award ceremony in October.  She is so proud of these people and also the Library as a whole.  It was wonderful to see their work recognized.   Thanks to Becky Maue for her incredible work in writing these nominations.  She is an expert storyteller for the Library.
		Jennifer McBride and the Communications Department have won MLA's 2025 Public Relations Achievement Award.  This award recognizes a Missouri library for outstanding public relations during the previous year which would include the opening of the Clark Family Branch.
		Tarza Tawfiq, the Library's Employee Relations Coordinator, has won MLA's 2025 Outstanding Library Employee Award.  This award recognizes a library employee who has made a significant contribution to the improvement and advancement of library and information services. Nominees must have one full year of library service in Missouri prior to their nomination and at least five years' experience in the library profession. Nominees shall not be holders of the MLS degree, but must have demonstrated creativity and inventiveness in their achievements.
		Brent Trout and the History and Genealogy Department have won the 2025 Excellence in Genealogy and Local History Award from the Missouri Library Association’s Genealogy and Local History Committee of Interest.  This award is given annually to recognize and honor excellence in the field of genealogy and local history for Missouri libraries, repositories, and staff. The award seeks to encourage excellence in genealogical and local history research, patron assistance, exhibits, online resources, public programs, and other media. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Three Library employees have been named as MLA You Belong Scholars which is a statewide initiative aimed at retaining and developing Missouri library workers from historically underrepresented groups:  Rashandra Burnett, Library Associate in Bookmobiles, Nicole Riebe, Library Associate in the Creative Lab, and Tarza Tawfiq, Employee Relations Coordinator
	The Library hosted a community-wide challenge called Branch Out, inviting St. Louisans to explore their local libraries. The Branch Out Challenge took place from September 2 - October 31 at all twenty branches. The Branch Out Challenge invited community members to visit an SLCL branch for the first time, get a library card, check out a new branch, or rediscover everything the Library has to offer.  The Branch Out Challenge wrapped up on October 31 with almost 2,000 people participating online. While we didn’t track paper entries to the Challenge, 5,000 physical passports were distributed. The goal of the Branch Out Challenge was to increase awareness about our amazing library and drive increased usage. Over 6,000 people signed up for a library card during the Challenge, and over 447,000 people visited a branch. The public clearly enjoyed the Challenge to visit at least 5 branches during the two-month period. Many people shared their stickers and stamped passports on social media. The Library had some special help promoting the Challenge from celebrity and former St. Louisan Jon Hamm, who made a video encouraging people to participate (it’s been viewed over 57,000 times on social media). The branch video tours will be added to the individual branch pages on the website.  They are also posted as a playlist on the Library’s YouTube page. Tay Tuteur’s amazing sketches will live on in the new Library Foundation Store where glitter version of the branch stickers and t-shirts may be purchased. (Plan: Increase Access 1, 2a, 2c, 2d)
	Ms. Sorth shared on November 1, the Library’s Belonging Group launched the “We Belong Challenge” for Library employees. By taking some time to learn about issues in our region, we can better understand our community and discover ways that the Library can help meet people’s needs. During November, participating employees will read articles and watch videos about Environmental Injustice. Thanks to the Belonging Group for putting this challenge together. (Plan: Sense of Community 1d)
	Over the next few weeks, the Kranzberg Arts Foundation will be removing the current art and installing new art at the Clark Family Branch in the space just outside of the Post Holdings Event Center.  The next exhibition will feature work by past Kranzberg resident artists. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, Increase Access 1a)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Ms. Sorth reported on October 14th, Microsoft stopped supporting Windows 10 and all Microsoft Office products released prior to Office 2024.  The IT department completed the Windows 11 PC upgrade and migration effort weeks ahead of the deadline.  The district-wide Office 2024 software upgrade was also completed prior to the October 14 deadline.  Various IT sources estimate that over 40% of the world’s PCs are still running Windows 10. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	Lamar Johnson Collaborative is finalizing designs for the new Chesterfield Branch.  A permit set was issued to St. Louis County on October 31.  Roberto, Kelli, and Spring participated in a final page turn review last Thursday to examine the drawings prior to the issuance of the bid set.  The final bid package is scheduled to be delivered on November 21, and we plan to issue the package for bid in early December. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	Work to install the new Lewis & Clark Branch Computer Lab HVAC is in progress.  Once the ceiling tiles were removed, the contractor realized that an existing sprinkler line was directly below the newly planned roof penetration.  Efforts have been made to slightly adjust the location of the new system.  The remaining tasks should be completed in a timely manner. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Painters will begin work this week at Florissant Valley and at Daniel Boone Branches touching up areas in the branches. They will then move on to Rock Road Branch where they will paint the entry lobby, cafe area, restroom vestibules, and columns throughout the building.  Building Systems is also working with ICS to coordinate the new flooring installation at Rock Road Branch which will finalize the current updates to their entry lobby and cafe area. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth reported the distribution of new furniture across the system is ongoing.  Prairie Commons Branch recently received four chairs for their adult collection, in addition to two teen chairs and three chairs for their teen laptop bar.  Weber Road Branch received a pair of soft seating and a coffee table for a new seating arrangement in their adult collection, along with two new chairs for their teen area.  Rock Road Branch received nine new chairs for their adult collection to replace the white lounge chairs which were showing signs of wear.  They also received three new tables and chairs for their renovated cafe area.  Cliff Cave Branch received new chairs in their adult area, and Florissant Valley Branch received an update of newly upholstered chairs in their Discovery Zone. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
Library Foundation and Grants
	Ms. Sorth shared that the Foundation completed its second round of 2025 Alison Grant awards. In 2025, they awarded $18,300 to seven applicants, including:
		Teen Therapy Workshop at Florissant Valley Branch
		Upgrades to the Teen Space at Lewis & Clark Branch
		Pokemon Fan Fest at Grant’s View Branch
		Staff Development Cohort at the Missouri Library Association Conference
		Babysitting Training and Certification through Information Services
		Freedom’s Eve: A Watch Night Celebration at Lewis & Clark Branch
		Mobile Makerspace with the Creative Lab
		Additional Dyslexia Kits for circulation
Applications for the 2026 funds will be available in early December with a deadline for the first round on February 9, 2026. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 1d)
	The Foundation hosted two author event receptions in early November: Charles Finch and Elyse Myers. Between the two events, the Foundation hosted 125 individuals to enjoy drinks, snacks, and meet and greets with visiting authors. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	The Fall Appeal has arrived in mailboxes.  The theme this year is “Your Impact Travels” which shares how a donation to the Foundation makes an impact all across the region. The fundraising goal is $42,000. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	Library and Foundation Grants:
		The Library received a $16,395 LSTA (Library Services and Technology Act) Technology Mini grant to support replacement network switches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
		The Library Foundation received a $10,000 grant from the Optimist Club of St. Louis to support Coding 101 in 2026. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
		The Library Foundation received a $25,000 grant from the St. Louis County Port Authority to support the Small Business Launchpad and Teen Startup Studio in 2026 and 2027. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3b)
		An organization that was winding down reached out several months ago about their interest in donating to other organizations doing good work in the region.  Ashley Sexton and I have had several conversations with the organization’s members.  They have donated $25,000 to support Excel Online High School. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth reported the Author Series Update - Year to date:
# of authors: 138
Attendance: 34,750
2024 totals: 144 authors/33,000 attendees
2025 projections: 164 authors/37,650 attendees
November/December 2025 Author Events
	Simon Winchester, author of “The Breath of the Gods: The History and Future of the Wind,” Thursday, November 20, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Ree Drummond, author of “The Pioneer Woman Cooks: The Essential Recipes,” Friday, November 21, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed/SOLD OUT
	Leland Vittert, “Born Lucky: A Dedicated Father, a Grateful Son, and My Journey with Autism,” Saturday, November 22, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Billy Collins, author of “Dog Show: Poems,” Sunday, November 23, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Teen Book Festival featuring 20 popular young adult authors - Saturday, December 6, 2025, 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
	Jack Fairweather, author of “The Prosecutor: One Man’s Battle to Bring Nazis to Justice,” Thursday, December 11, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Ben Westhoff, author and documentary filmmaker of “The Antagonist” - Documentary film screening, Saturday, December 13, 2025, 6:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Materials Reconsideration Actions
Date Submitted           Item                                                                    Decision of Committee
9/23/2025                    Fairest in the Land                                             Retained in Collection
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
Employee Engagement Day presentation
Tarza Tawfiq, Employee Relations Coordinator, presented on Employee Engagement Day, which took place on October 14, and Engagement Week which led up to Engagement Day.
2026 Draft Budget
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the informational item on the 2026 budget and asked the Board to submit all questions to Ms. Sorth and Ms. Taylor by December 5.
Pension Board Appointment
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the recommendation.
It is recommended that May Scheve Reardon replace Joan Barry as the second Library Board-appointed member to the Pension Board.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Jerry Kline Community Impact Award
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommended that the Library Board authorize a one-time payment from the Kline funds, distributed to the Library by the Foundation, of $430 for full-time employees and $269 for part-time employees in recognition of their stellar work that they continue to do for the Library, as celebrated by the Jerry Kline Community Impact Award.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Naming Policy
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the recommendation.
The Administration recommended approval of the revised Naming Policy.
Ms. Patterson recommended that we review the policy every couple of years.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Overdue fines
Eric Button, Deputy Director, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommended that the Board approve the annual removal of older overdue fines beginning with the fines assessed prior to 2005, which is $41,389.07, and continuing to waive the next oldest year of fines on January 2 of each year continuing through 2041.
Motion by May Scheve Reardon, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Meeting Room AV Renovation – Grant’s View
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Mod Comm, LLC to provide AV renovation services for the Grant’s View Meeting Room for the amount of $55,753 and that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
ADJOURNMENT
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
All approved by voice vote.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Meeting adjourned 4:44
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
May Scheve Reardon                                                              Date
Secretary