{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBST8F762075",
  "date": "2025-04-21T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, APRIL 21, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, April 21, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
Johnny Wang, President, attended via phone.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; Desiree Whitlock, St. Louis County; MO House of Representative Stephanie Boykin; and James Turner III MO House of Representatives staff.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Beth Watts, Heather Neill, Carla Maxwell, Jess Huffman, Carrie Robb, Rebecca Clarke, Matt Lakin, Hannah Axt, Trista Doyle, Miriam Whatley, Will LaChance, Anne Arthur, Rachel Dippel, Nina Johnston, Dawn Frierdich, Kalin Preston, Natalia Catlett, Cameron Riesenberger, Ja’Mel McCaine, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Mary Arnhart, Nikole Brown, Ashley Sexton, Kelli Reeves, Alaina Culbertson, Amy Hanaway, Emily Althoff, Darien Jones, Jennifer Alexander, Lucas Peterson, Melissa Hupp, Nicole Walsh, Sarah Brown, Donna Spaulding, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the February 24, 2025 Library Board minutes.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Dawn Frierdich spoke to the board regarding waitlists for Hoopla and Libby.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for January 2025.
Administration recommended approval of the January Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for February 2025.
Administration recommended approval of the February Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for March 2025.
Administration recommended approval of the March Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Ted Sanditz, second by Joan Barry.
Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for March and April.
	She explained that the service statistics previously included separately within the Director’s report will now be part of the Dashboard each month.  Circulation in March totaled 939,818 which is a 2% increase. With 262,498 people visiting, Library visits in March increased 18% compared to March of 2024.  Last month, 345 patrons used a PC in the Creative Lab, 167 Teens used the Game Lounge, 12 used the Recording Room, 124 patrons used the Large Format Printer, and there were 113 3D prints made. March saw a 10% increase in PC usage with 49,277 sessions. There was a 19% increase in Wifi usage over March 2024. The branch with the highest number of PC sessions was Lewis & Clark with 4,469 sessions. The Clark Family Branch had the largest number of WiFi sessions with 6,830 WiFi uses.  In March 2025, 3,275 patrons registered for a library card. This is a 32% increase compared to the number of patrons who registered in March 2024. About 70% of patrons who registered in March 2025 have used their library card in the past three months.  Library employees provided notary services for 2,393 patrons in March 2025. This is 30% higher than the notary services provided in March 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, 3d, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
	On May 5, 2025, the Library will launch an online technology training platform called Coursera.  This training platform is a joint venture between Coursera and Grow With Google that is available to the Library through a partnership with TechSTL.  Coursera offers more than 200 courses where students can earn a variety of certifications in areas such as UX Design, Data Analytics, Digital Marketing, IT Security and Cybersecurity, and Project Management.  Coursera and Grow With Google have provided access to free scholarships through December 2027 for students to access these courses at no cost. These scholarships will be available to anyone with a valid St. Louis County Library card, regardless of their place of residence. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a)
	Eye Thrive will bring their mobile vision clinic to several branches again this summer including Lewis & Clark, Florissant Valley, Natural Bridge and Weber Road. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said the Library will again partner with the BGG Foundation to present several programs this year at Grant’s View, Daniel Boone and Florissant Valley. BGG will offer a range of activities from the newest consoles to board games and virtual reality. The program is for ages 18 and under. These programs will lead up to a large gaming tournament hosted by BGG at the Clark Family Branch on July 26th. The BGG Foundation is dedicated to empowering socioeconomically disadvantaged youth by utilizing gaming to lead them to higher education. All of these programs are sponsored by the Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
	In partnership with the YWCA, the Library will again virtually host the 21-Day Social Justice Challenge in May.  For 21 days, interested participants will be provided with daily content to expand their understanding of social justice. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
	The Library launched circulating Tonie Boxes and Yoto Player kits starting on March 19th. There are 40 copies of ten themed kits. Patron demand for the kits is significant. There are nearly 700 holds on the Tonies and Yotos. The most popular kit is the Disney-themed Tonie Kit. Additional copies of the most popular kits and new themes have been ordered. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2d, 3b, 3d)
	In response to the popularity of GoPro cameras, the Library has purchased an additional 15 devices. Eight will join the circulating units to fill holds, and seven will be available to patrons for a bookable three-week period. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3b)
	Ms. Sorth shared members of Administration and Acquisitions met with the St. Louis Society for the Blind and Visually Impaired. The Society provides social workers, services, and resources for individuals with visual impairments. The Visual Accessibility kits will be updated with informational inserts detailing the services offered by the Society. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
	On March 28th, the Library’s Polaris software was updated to the most current version. The new update allows employees and patrons to cancel holds that have reached the hold-shelf. This is a feature that many patrons have requested. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Increase Access 1d)
	The Library received 428 applications for the Explorer Summer Camps, and 72 campers were selected via lottery for the six camps. To ensure convenient access, roundtrip shuttle transportation will be provided from the Natural Bridge Branch (utilized by 29% of campers) and the Weber Road Branch (utilized by 22% of campers) to the Clark Family Branch, where all camps will be held. This summer's enriching camp offerings include Makerspace Exploration, Entrepreneurship & Product Design, and History Detective, all taking place within the state-of-the-art facilities of the Clark Family Branch, such as the OCI Creative Lab, Emerson History & Genealogy Center, and the Small Business Center. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
	The Encore Entrepreneurs 2025 cohort is currently in progress, featuring 13 aspiring entrepreneurs. The 8-week program is designed to equip entrepreneurs and small business owners aged 55+ with the skills and knowledge needed for their new business to succeed. The program will provide older entrepreneurs not only with the tools to build their business, but also how to do so while protecting their retirement, demystifying technology, and learning how to recognize and combat ageism. The program will conclude with a Pitch Competition on Tuesday, May 20th where participants will compete for $10,000 in business funding sponsored by the Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth announced that Information Services launched its inaugural Teen Startup Studio on April 8th.  The Studio is designed to empower the next generation of entrepreneurs. The program drew 48 applications from teens across the St. Louis area, highlighting strong community interest in youth business development. Sixteen teens, grades 9-12, were selected to participate in the six-week program, gaining hands-on experience in entrepreneurship. The initiative will culminate in a public Teen Market on Saturday, May 31st, at the Clark Family Branch, showcasing the creativity and innovation of these young entrepreneurs and giving them the opportunity to sell their products. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	The Small Business Launchpad will open applications on May 1st for its third cohort, continuing its mission to support formerly incarcerated individuals in building sustainable futures through entrepreneurship. This eight-week program provides hands-on business training, mentorship, and a supportive learning environment that promotes equitable access to economic opportunity. The program will culminate in a Pitch Competition, where $10,000 in business funding, sponsored by the Clark Family, will be awarded to a participant to help launch or grow their business. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Almost 700 people attended the 6th Annual Community Autism Expo on Saturday, April 5 at the Clark Family Branch. This was the Library’s largest event to date, with over 40 organizations participating. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 2d, 3a, 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth shared that the 25th Annual Daffodil Show was held at the Clark Family Branch on April 4th and 5th with over 1,000 patrons attending. The Greater St. Louis Daffodil Society showcased award-winning specimens from hundreds of daffodil varieties and educated visitors on daffodil history, bloom characteristics, cultivation, and tips for growing them at home. The society also decorated the branch with floral arrangements and bouquets at nearly every service desk. The Library hosted three related programs during the run of the show—All About Daffodils, Painting Daffodils, and Take and Make Daffodil Bouquets which drew a combined attendance of 87 patrons. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, Increase Access 1a)
	Thanks to an Alison Grant from the Foundation, Dyslexia Kits are now available for in-branch use or to check out. Each kit contains a reading pen with a text-to-speech scanner, colored overlays for print and screen reading, and guided reading strips. All of the kits are currently checked out with 30 holds. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
	Applications for the Sidney Johnson Internship were accepted during the month of March and the Library received 251 applications. The Library has chosen four teens to intern this summer. This program is supported by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and the Norman J. Stupp Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 3b, 3c)
	Throughout the month of May, the Library will celebrate Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month with programs at all branches.  Communications has designed a brochure highlighting the events. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
	The Write Stuff Contest is for kids and teens in grades 3-12. This year participants were required to submit a story using the phrase “I think you broke it.”  The Library received 297 submissions. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2b, 3d)
	Explore-a-Story started on April 1st and will continue through May 31st. This program encourages families to get outside in spring and visit six unique sites in St. Louis County, while discovering books that pair with each location. Families can pick up a small brochure at any branch and mark each location they visit or they can track their adventures online. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 3d)
	The Library hosted a Nintendo Event on Saturday, March 1st at Clark Family. 265 people attended and enjoyed Nintendo gaming consoles as well as Nintendo-themed crafts and games. A representative from Nintendo was on site giving out Nintendo swag and allowing attendees to try out games. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d)
	Ms. Sorth shared on Wednesday, April 23 at 6:30 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch, the Library will host YouthAbility who will present their original musical show on the history, science and the benefits of kindness. YouthAbility has performed in cities across the country to promote their important message. This program, based in Cleveland, empowers teens and young adults with disabilities and at-risk youth through volunteerism, wellness programs and integrated activities. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
	The 2025 Black History Celebration Committee was thrilled to present an incredible lineup of stellar authors, artists, and events. The 2025 theme was “From Blacksmiths to Wordsmiths: How the Labor of African Americans Continues to Shape American Culture.” The Black History Celebration Committee members are: Brenda West Ammons, Carla Maxwell, Cindy Fehmel, CJ Hall, Crystal Harris, Nakisha Ford, Jocelyn Moore, and Ja’Mel McCaine. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, Increase Access 2a, 2b)
	The Library celebrated 314 Day with a lineup of fun, St. Louis-themed programs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Lunar New Year at Rock Road, Nintendo, Egg Drop Challenge at Grant’s View, Create like Ada! at Daniel Boone, Canvas for Kids at Lewis & Clark, Colorific Experiment at Meramec Valley, Tea with a T-Rex at Grand Glaize, and National Bookmobile Day. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
	“Kristen - As head of the county library system I am writing you to tell you how much I appreciated the incredible tech help I received from Carina Pautz.  I am a not very tech savvy 70 year old woman…I have been struggling with some Gmail, google issues and was having trouble finding any support.  I remembered taking computer classes years ago at SLCL so I went to the website.  I didn’t find any classes that matched my needs but I did fill out the form for “Book a Trainer”.  WOW - what a fantastic service to offer the community.  I was quite fortunate to get CARINA PAUTZ as my trainer.  She was amazing besides incredibly patient and very knowledgeable.  I met with her at least 3 times and she never gave up on trying to help me solve my problem with google photos, etc.  I am so appreciative for her help as well as thankful for this great service the library offers and for free!  I hope the library will continue to offer this type of support to the community.  Again thank you to Carina and all who are responsible for this much needed service.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	Ms. Sorth talked to a patron who insisted on talking to her personally.  Her call was a compliment about Cliff Cave.  “She was there on Saturday and said it was a "zoo".  She said there were so many people there who needed help with tax forms and Libby and that everyone at the branch was helping others and then she needed help at the printer.  The lady said she was standing there staring at the printer and thinking - oh no I'm going to have to do this by myself since it's so busy and "Lisa" appeared next to her and asked how she could help.  Lisa assisted with the task.  The woman said there is absolutely no way she would have figured it out without help and she didn't even have to ask for it.  Help appeared!” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
	“While working at the Re-Entry Resource Fair at Natural Bridge today, I had a nice conversation with a new library patron. This patron heard about the Re-Entry Resource Fair from a KSDK article, and showed up in hopes of connecting with housing and Medicare resources. He was extremely nervous and mentioned that he had never been to the library before and had been released from prison two weeks prior. I connected him with Katie Lappe and mentioned the Book-a-Trainer service before sending him into the fair to speak with the other organizations. This new patron said he was amazed and appreciative of the vast amount of resources available in one place, and said he was unaware that libraries can help in so many unexpected ways. He also seemed relieved that he was personally welcome in the library space.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	A patron was surprised to hear a trombonist playing in the meeting room and commented how glad he was that the library is more of a community hub now and has lost the stigma of being a quiet place where people are shamed for making noises. (Plan: Increase Access 1)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth shared April 6-12 is National Library Week. This year, the Library celebrated by participating in a Spirit Week. Employees shared their pictures of themed outfits on Stacks throughout the week. For Library Workers Day on Tuesday, Kristen Sorth shared an annual message of appreciation and for employees to order t-shirts with Gateway to Reading logo on them.
		Monday, April 7: SLCL Pride Day - Wear your library apparel
		Tuesday, April 8: Twinning Tuesday - Twin with someone and share a pic
		Wednesday, April 9: Western Wednesday - Dress in your favorite western wear
		Thursday, April 10: Hat Day - Silly and goofy hats encouraged but all hats are welcome
		Friday, April 11: Aloha Friday - Wear your best Hawaiian shirt
		Saturday, April 12: Sports Day - Wear your favorite jersey or sports team clothes (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said public libraries are seeing a shift in patron technology usage and SLCL is no exception.  Patrons are increasingly bringing their personal computing devices to the Library and utilizing our Wi-Fi over traditional public PC usage.  This trend began when patrons started returning to libraries after the pandemic.  In order to better serve patrons utilizing our WiFi, the Library opened up outside access to its MobilePrint print management system in December of 2024 and enabled more features in the system.  MobilePrint allows a patron to submit print jobs from anywhere via a personal device and visit any branch to pick up their printouts.  Usage of the MobilePrint system has averaged about 300 new users per month since January of this year.  The number of MobilePrint print jobs continues to increase significantly, adding about 1,000 more print jobs each month.  March saw 909 unique MobilePrint users submit a total of 4,047 print jobs. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3c)
	During National Library Week, the Library invited patrons to vote on their favorite bookmobile design. Voting took place on our Instagram account and via paper ballots available at all 20 branches. Over 5,500 people voted. The Library enlisted the help of local artist Dan Zettwoch, who hosted a series of workshops in summer 2024, where kids could contribute their ideas for the design. Zettwoch took the ideas generated at these workshops and crafted them into three colorful designs: Unlock Your Inner Dragon; Books Can Take You Places; and Books are Magical. Engagement on Instagram surged during the voting period. Over 2,600 people visited the SLCL profile, and the Library gained over 400 new followers. Kristen appeared on the KSDK streaming show to talk about the voting, and ads were placed on KTRS and STLPR. The winning design will be announced the week of April 21st. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 2c, Increase Access 1d)
	The Library received a sweetgum seedling from the NASA Moon Tree project. Tree seeds traveled into lunar orbit aboard the Orion spacecraft on the Artemis I mission. The seeds travelled thousands of miles beyond the Moon spending about four weeks in space before returning to Earth.  The Library applied for a seedling in 2023 and was recently approved. The sweetgum seedling arrived on April 10th and will be planted at Meramec Valley when it is ready. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Increase Access 1b)
	In March, managers, assistant managers, and other library leadership completed in-person and online training sessions on Creating an Environment of Belonging facilitated by Hicks-Carter-Hicks. Employee training sessions are taking place in April. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 1d)
	Pension Statements were distributed to eligible employees the first week of April and included information for employees on their projected pension benefit at retirement age. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	Ms. Sorth shared on March 14th, President Trump issued an executive order that impacted the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS).  Below is correspondence related to this order from the State Library and from the Urban Libraries Council.  The impact on St. Louis County Library is through the Grants to States program since we do apply for and receive grants from the Missouri State Library.  We are currently evaluating the impact on current grants. These grant dollars do not make up a significant portion of our budget.  Small and rural libraries in Missouri and other states would see a much bigger impact.  That being said, IMLS plays a vital and important role in the work and mission of public libraries and museums in the United States.
		State Library
			On Friday, March 14, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order that directly effects the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS), the agency which manages the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) funds through the Grants to States (G2S) program. The G2S program funds the LSTA grants offered by the Missouri State Library. The U.S. Congress website describes the IMLS Grants to States Program as “both the largest source of federal funding for library services in the United States and the largest of the programs administered by the IMLS. The Grants to States program was first authorized under the Museum and Library Services Act of 1996 (MLSA). It was subsequently authorized as Title II of the MLSA of 2003 (P.L. 108-81), which was most recently amended by the Museum and Library Services Act of 2018 (P.L. 115-410). IMLS Grants to States are allocated to state library administrative agencies (SLAAs).” We do not know what the reduction to “statutory functions” will entail for the IMLS staff and the LSTA funding at this time. Grant Funding:  The use of the FFY24 funding will end on September 30, 2025, and grants awarded with these funds are not likely to be affected, but payment delays could occur based on the availability of IMLS staff to process payments to the Missouri State Library
		ULC
			As the organizations that collectively represent public libraries in the United States, the Association for Rural & Small Libraries, the Public Library Association, and the Urban Libraries Council oppose the Executive Order calling for the gutting of the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS), which will have disastrous consequences for America’s public libraries and their patrons across the country. We call on members of Congress to affirm the value of these community pillars by pushing the White House to rescind this order. From literacy to workforce training to homeschooling resources to veterans’ services, IMLS provides a backbone for public libraries to support each and every American in communities, small and large. Representing .003% of the federal budget, IMLS funding delivers a tremendous return on its investment in this nation's 17,000 public libraries through efficient administration by its staff and services. As most funds are distributed through the “Grants to States” program, IMLS funding is closely tied to the needs of state and local libraries, making it a program with maximum efficiency and efficacy in all 50 states. For example, IMLS funds have upgraded internet speeds for library patrons in Whitefish, Montana; provided Braille books for the blind in Louisiana; and education kits for homeschool families in Choctaw County, Mississippi projects driven locally, based on need.  Further, IMLS programs like the National Leadership grants power innovation that ensures libraries have resources to explore safe routes for children to their public library, expand new technology and AI adoption, and improve disaster preparedness. IMLS must continue to operate as Congress intended, and all members of Congress must listen to their constituents and speak up for the value of public libraries and the essential services they provide.
	We are actively tracking HB 903 which is making its way through the Missouri House and Senate.  The bill would reduce the percentage of assessed valuation from Personal Property from 33.3% to 18% over a three year period.  This reduction in personal property taxes would have a significant impact on libraries, school districts, municipalities, fire districts etc.  The current fiscal note for the entire State of Missouri is $1 Billion.  For SLCL, the three year cost would be reduction in income of over $11 million and would be a reduction of more than $5 million every year after.  We have been in contact with our Senators and various other organizations including the Missouri Library Association are also working on this piece of legislation.
	Ms. Sorth said she was incredibly honored to receive the 2025 Trailblazer Award from St. Louis Forum.  The Trailblazer Award was created in 1994 to recognize a woman who is/was an influential community leader, is/was “the first” in her field, or made/is making a significant contribution toward elevating the image of women in business.  Ms. Sorth was nominated, not by the Library, but by two women leaders in St. Louis, Betsy Cohen and Anna Crosslin.  All of the former Trailblazer recipients from the past 20 years of the award review the nominations and vote on the recipient.  There will be a luncheon in May. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	The design process continues for the new Chesterfield Branch.  We are nearing the end of the Schematic Design phase with the architects and will be moving on to the Design Development phase.  This means that the overall plan for the building has been established, and now we will begin refining all of the spaces and working more on the interior.  We will also start to explore interior finishes and furniture options. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1b, 1c)
	On March 17th, the City of Chesterfield approved the Intergovernmental Agreement regarding the TIF revenue for the new Chesterfield Branch.  The Library Board approved this agreement in February. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1b, 1c)
	Ms. Sorth shared the consolidation plan to join the Samuel C. Sachs property with the Reading Garden property was accepted by the Chesterfield City Council on March 17th. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1b, 1c)
	During the recent heavy rains, several branches experienced small roof leaks.  Repairs were made to the Lewis & Clark, Daniel Boone, and Clark Family roofs. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	New end panels are currently being installed in the Natural Bridge Branch.  These new panels are replacing the old ones which showed signs of wear, including delaminating metal laminate around the edges.  The new end panels have a hard wood edge which offers a more refined look as well as an increased durability. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Florissant Valley Discovery Zone will soon be receiving a new Everbright unit.  Several of the dials on the old unit no longer worked.  We reached out to the manufacturer and they decided to send us a newer replacement model as part of our warranty at no additional cost. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	Three new delivery trucks have arrived.  They are receiving their SLCL decals and will begin heading out to the branches soon.  We should receive one more new delivery truck this month which will complete our current order. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said that since opening the Clark Family Branch, we have received feedback from visitors expressing interest in the location having a mother's room. A dedicated mother's room has been created and is now open. The room is located on the upper level outside the children's space. Those wishing to nurse in private may obtain a key from staff in the children's space to access the mother's room. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
Library Foundation and Grants
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation is preparing for their annual fundraising event scheduled for August 9th from 6:00 - 10:00 pm at the Clark Family Branch. This year the Foundation is hosting an outdoor movie night complete with food trucks and themed cocktails. Tickets to this event will be $75 for general admission and $150 for VIP admission. Tickets will be available for purchase in early May. The fundraising goal for this event is $160,000. (Plan: Increase Access 1b, 2b, 2c)
	The latest edition of the Beyond the Page Newsletter has hit mailboxes. This is the biannual newsletter that highlights the accomplishments of the Foundation and celebrates Foundation donors and more. The second edition will come out later this year. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Foundation is hosting a Donor appreciation breakfast this year on May 20th at the Clark Family Branch.  The guest author will be Michelle Young. (Plan: Increase Access 1b, 2b, 2c)
	The Foundation approved the first round of Alison Grant for 2025.  Those include the following:
		$1,870.00 for the Staff Development Cohort to Attend the Missouri Library Association Annual Conference (Lynn Beckwith Jr. Building)
		$1,000.00 for the Pokémon Fan Fest 2025 (Grant's View Branch)
		$1,600.00 for the Teen Video Game Space (Lewis & Clark Branch)
		$1,500.00 for the Teen Art Therapy Workshop (Florissant Valley Branch) (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 3b)
	Foundation and Library Grants:
		The Library Foundation received a $300,000 grant from the Berges Family Foundation to support the Community Resource Initiative (social workers) for 3 years.
		The Library Foundation received a $5,000 gift from the WorldWide Technology Foundation to support the Raise a Reader program.
		The Library Foundation received a $2,500 grant from the Violence Prevention Commission to hold a Teen after Hours Social event at Natural Bridge on June 27.
		The Library was awarded a $15,000 LSTA (Library Services and Technology Act) Spotlight on Literacy grant to support Gateway to Reading. This grant is now paused due to changes at IMLS resulting from a federal Executive Order in March.
		The Library received a $1,500 grant from the Missouri Association of Community Arts Agencies (MACAA) for arts-related programming at Weber Road, Eureka Hills, and Cliff Cave Branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth announced the Clark Family Branch will close at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, May 12 for the sold out author event with Abraham Verghese.
St. Louis County Library Foundation will host an event with MSNBC’s political commentator Rachel Maddow on May 31 at The Pageant. She will discuss her latest book, “Prequel,” a historical study of the fascist movements of WWII. The event is sold out.
May 2025 Author Events
	Michael Luo, author of “Strangers in the Land: Exclusion, Belonging, and the Epic Story of the Chinese in America,” Thursday, May 1, , 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ed Wheatley, author of “From St. Louis to Cooperstown: Legends Born and Made in the Gateway City,” Friday, May 2, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	William Dalrymple, author of “The Golden Road: How Ancient India Transformed the World,” Monday, May 5, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Alan Weisman, author of “Hope Dies Last: Visionary People Across the World, Fighting to Find Us a Future,” Wednesday, May 7, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Mary Annette Pember, author of “Medicine River: A Story of Survival and the Legacy of Indian Boarding Schools,” Thursday, May 8, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Jeffery Deaver, author of “South of Nowhere,” Friday, May 9, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	SOLD OUT - Ticketed Event: Abraham Verghese, author of “The Covenant of Water,” Monday, May 12, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Rebecca Thompson, author of “Held Together: A Shared Memoir of Motherhood, Medicine, and Imperfect Love,” Tuesday, May 13, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ticketed Event: Adam Silvera, author of “The Survivor Wants to Die at the End,” Wednesday, May 14, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ticketed Event: Dave Barry, “Class Clown: The Memoirs of a Professional Wiseass,” Sunday, May 19, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Michelle Young, author of “The Art Spy: The Extraordinary Untold Tale of WWII Resistance Leader Rose Valland,” Monday, May 19, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Carl Hiaasen, author of “Fever Beach,” Tuesday, May 20, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ticketed Event: Katherine Center, author of “The Love Haters,” Wednesday, May 21, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Stephen Platt, author of “The Raider: The Untold Story of a Renegade Marine and the Birth of U.S. Special Forces in World War II,” Wednesday, May 28, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Craig Johnson, author of “Return to Sender,” Saturday, May 31, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	SOLD OUT Ticketed Event: Rachel Maddow, author of “Prequel: An American Fight Against Facism,” Saturday, May 31, 7:00 p.m. - The Pageant
Materials Reconsideration Actions
Date Submitted                        Item                                                    Decision of Committee
2/12/2025                                A Court of Thorn and Roses (series) Reclassified from Teen to Adult
3/10/2025                                It’s So Amazing                                  Retained in collection
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
RESOLUTION PRESENTATION
Rep. Stephanie Boykin presented her first-ever Resolution to SLCL. She hopes it serves as a valuable reminder of the importance of our work.
2025 LIBRARY AUDIT
Rick Gratza from KEB presented the 2025 Library Audit. He shared that the financial statements were presented fairly in all materials in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Mr. Gratza reported to the Board that the Library had received an unmodified, clean audit opinion, which he explained was the best type of audit opinion an organization could receive.
The Library Administration recommended the acceptance of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report. Copies of the Annual Comprehensive Audit Report will be sent to the State Auditor and State Library as required by State Statute. The report will also be available on the Library’s website.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
2025 PENSION CONTRIBUTION
Library Administration recommended the Library Board authorize the recommended amount of $3,680,429 as the annual contribution to the Pension Plan for 2025.
Motion by Joan Barry, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
EXECUTIVE RECRUITING SERVICES
Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select EMD Consulting to provide Executive Recruiting Services for $35,000 and that it authorize the Director & CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
POLICY I - PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Library Administration recommended the approval of the restated Procurement Policy, currently found in the By-Laws of the Board of Trustees Article VIII, Section 1, Policy I.
Motion by Joan Barry, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
POLICY II - PROFESSIONAL SERVICES; POLICY III - DISBURSEMENTS
Library Administration recommended the approval of the restated Procurement Policy, currently found in the By-Laws of the Board of Trustees Article VIII, Section I, Policy II and Policy III.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
All approved by voice vote.
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Meeting adjourned at 4:38 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
Joan Barry                                                                              Date
Secretary