{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBSTB676866C",
  "date": "2025-06-16T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, JUNE 16, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, June 16, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Laura Taylor, CFO; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives; Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Michelle Howard, Matthew Krieg, Lauren Budde, Zoe Maffitt, Slysia Collins, Rhiannon Oakes, Gregory Minnis, Nicole Clawson, Addie Chow, Trista Doyle, Cheryl Hager, KB Benson, Emma Figueroa, Melissa Bauer, Annie Fuller, Nora Marino, Andrea Carter, Bethany Cutkomp, Elise Wantling, Cheri Remington, Heather Neill, Anna Schurk, Kim Ford, Dany Nenninger, Stacy Berger, Chris Goodman, Nikole Brown, Kalin Preston, Andrea Johnson, Brent Trout, Meredith Hopping, Carrie Robb, Rachel Dippel, Cameron Riesenberger, Ja’Mel McCaine, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Sarah Brown, Spring Galey, Mary Arnhart, Ashley Sexton, Kelli Reeves, Emily Althoff, Stephanie Nordmann, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the May 19, 2025 Library Board Minutes.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Michelle Howard spoke to the board regarding her concerns about content in the children's section.
POPPED FROM THE PAGE PRESENTATION
Ashley Sexton, Manager, Development, presented the details for St. Louis County Library Foundation’s largest fundraiser for 2025, Popped From the Page.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for April 2025.
Administration recommends approval of the April Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for May 2025.
Administration recommends approval of the May Treasurer's Report subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth delivered the dashboard report for April and May.
	The service statistics that were previously included separately within the Director’s report will now be part of the Dashboard each month.  Circulation in May totaled 912.356 which is a 1% increase. With 257,881 people visiting, Library visits in May increased 13% compared to May of 2024.  The Clark Family Branch remains the busiest location in the system.  The branch continues to see a significant number of patrons using the meeting and study rooms with 1,758 patrons using the rooms during May.  In May 2025, 3,089 patrons registered for a library card. This is a 21% increase compared to the number of patrons who registered in May of 2024.  About 70% of patrons who registered have used their library card in the past three months. The Gateway to Reading Kits, first available in February of this year, have circulated a total of 1,377 times. At the beginning of June, the Library added 17 different games to the Gateway to Reading collection. In less than a week, the games have circulated 19 times. In May, the Library hosted 1,466 programs, drawing a total of 40,734 attendees. (Plan: Promote Literacy, Increase Access)
	Ms. Sorth reported in May, the Library launched an online technology training platform called Coursera.  This training platform is a joint venture between Coursera and Grow With Google that is available to the Library through a partnership with TechSTL.  Coursera offers more than 200 courses where students can earn a variety of certifications in areas such as UX Design, Data Analytics, Digital Marketing, IT Security and Cybersecurity, and Project Management.  Coursera and Grow With Google have provided access to free scholarships through December 2027 for students to access these courses at no cost. These scholarships will be available to anyone with a valid St. Louis County Library card, regardless of their place of residence. More than 500 learners have already joined and they have completed more than 1,275 hours of courses.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a)
	The Library quickly took action to help the communities impacted by the tornado on May 16.  Working in partnership with the Delmar DivINe, St. Louis Area Diaper Bank, Operation Food Search and Missouri Baptist Disaster Relief, SLCL distributed diapers, period supply kits, non-perishable food, and hot meals to hundreds of people at a drive-thru event at Delmar DivINe on May 22.  In total 7,125 diapers, 187 period supply kits, 452 non-perishable meals, and 500 hot meals were distributed.  A second event was offered at Natural Bridge Branch on May 29.  In addition to distributing diapers and period supply kits, the branch also hosted the Dignity on Wheels mobile shower unit to provide access to showers for those who have been impacted by the storms since many people were still without basic services.  All remaining emergency diapers were distributed to the donation sites in the City. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 2b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared SLCL and Children’s Services Fund (CSF) are finalizing the details for an agreement for continuation and expansion of the Community Resource Initiative, which funds the work of the Library Social Workers. It is expected that this agreement will be fully executed in July 2025.  The funding commitment is for another three years, though it is expected that the CSF portion of the project costs will be stepped down each year.  The scope of the project will expand to include the addition of a seventh social worker.  This position will be placed at Natural Bridge Branch, allowing Katie Lappe, the Lead Social Worker, to focus on supporting and guiding the rest of the team instead of spending the majority of her time in direct service with patrons.  In addition to the seventh social worker, the budget also includes funds to employ three practicum students/interns over the three-year period.  These part-time positions will focus efforts on follow-up and outcome tracking and measurement. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Unfortunately, the three new bookmobiles built by Farber have shown excessive wear and discoloration of the main flooring material. Multiple attempts to clean and restore the flooring to its original condition failed.  This concern was brought to Farber’s attention and they have agreed to replace the flooring at their cost.  A different flooring product was selected to replace the discolored floor.  The replacement work will take place at the Farber shop in Columbus, Ohio.  All of the transportation of the vehicles back and forth will be managed by Farber employees.  It is expected that they will take one vehicle at a time for the work which will be completed over the summer when it has the least impact on school bookmobile services. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	The fourth school bookmobile, which is being built by CAD Industries, has experienced production delays.  Delivery of the vehicle was contractually required by May 31, 2025.  At the present time, it is expected to be delivered no earlier than late June.  Library Administration, in consultation with Lashly Baer, notified CAD of this breach of contract.  According to the terms of the contract, the Library will be entitled to payment of 1% of the total contract price for each week the delivery of the vehicle is delayed.  We anticipate the vehicle will be delivered in time for the start of the school year. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 2a)
	Ms. Sorth announced ARCHS will provide produce boxes for distribution at Florissant Valley, Lewis & Clark, and Weber Road Branches again this year. The produce boxes will be available on Thursday, June 12 and Thursday, June 26. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Since 2021, the Library has partnered with YWCA Metro St. Louis to host the Virtual Program: 21 Day Racial Equity & Social Justice Challenge each May. Instead of a theme, the 2025 Challenge featured a series of weekly topics: the impact of misinformation, interpersonal racism, and the American Dream. Over 280 people registered to take part in the Challenge this year, with a 69% open rate for the daily emails. One attendee said, “I think I learned more in these 21 days than I have in a long time.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b)
	Information Services launched its inaugural Teen Startup Studio on April 8th.  The Studio is designed to empower the next generation of entrepreneurs. The program drew 48 applications from teens across the St. Louis area, highlighting strong community interest in youth business development. Sixteen teens, grades 9-12, were selected to participate in the six-week program, gaining hands-on experience in entrepreneurship. The initiative culminated in a public Teen Market on Saturday, May 31st, at the Clark Family Branch, showcasing the creativity and innovation of these young entrepreneurs and giving them the opportunity to sell their products.  The event drew over 200 attendees, offering students the opportunity to showcase and sell their products or services to the public. Sales exceeded projections for many participants.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth shared applications for the Sidney Johnson Internship were accepted during the month of March and the Library received 251 applications. The Library has chosen four teens to intern this summer. This program is supported by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and the Norman J. Stupp Foundation. They started work on Monday, June 2 and will attend the July Library Board Meeting.
		Munirah Ahmad (she/her), 16 Munirah will be a junior at STEAM Academy at McCluer South-Berkeley High School in the fall.
		Patrick Hoffner (he/him), 16 Patrick will be a junior at Marquette High School in the fall.
		Da’Mireion Ivy (he/him), 16 Da’Mireion is a homeschool student entering his junior year in the fall.
		Hadley Keirsey (she/her), 16  Hadley will be a junior at Rockwood Summit High School in the fall. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 3b, 3c)
	On Wednesday, April 23 at 6:30 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch, the Library hosted YouthAbility who presented their original musical show on the history, science and the benefits of kindness. YouthAbility has performed in cities across the country to promote their important message. This program, based in Cleveland, empowers teens and young adults with disabilities and at-risk youth through volunteerism, wellness programs and integrated activities. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Library has successfully hosted many recent drives benefitting the community.  We are always overwhelmed by the generosity of our patrons.
		Mother's Day Spa Drive: From April 1st through May 15th, SLCL hosted a Mother’s Day Spa Closet Drive on behalf of St. Louis County Human Services for the Kathy J. Weinman Shelter.  97 boxes of donated items were collected.
		Tornado Relief Drive: 14 truckloads, 16 vanloads have been collected from all 21 locations and delivered to various relief efforts. Kudos to our amazing Transportation Department with a great assist from the Bookmobiles and Mobile Services department for collecting and delivering the copious donations.
		Upcoming School Supply Drive: Throughout the month of July, SLCL is hosting a school supply drive benefitting the Little Bit Foundation.
		Upcoming Food Drive:  The Library will also work with Operation Food Search to host a drive to support tornado relief efforts. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Eye Thrive will be visiting four locations on dates this summer. Eye Thrive provides onsite eye exams and glasses to youths through their Mobile Vision Clinics.  They have a new additional Mobile Vision Clinic (sponsored by Cardinals Care) that will double the capacity for each visit.  The Cardinals Bookmobile will join the Eye Thrive vehicles at Lewis & Clark on July 10th.  (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said the US Small Business Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have representatives onsite at the Florissant Valley Branch connecting our community with emergency relief resources.  FEMA has also set up office hours at the Prairie Commons Branch. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1)
	Through a partnership with InExcelsis the Library is hosting their Dignity on Wheels mobile shower unit at the Rock Road Branch every first and third Thursday through November. Dignity on Wheels also visited Natural Bridge during the Tornado Relief Event.  In total, six members of the community have used the service. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Volunteers from AARP, CORP, Gateway EITC, and St. Louis Tax Assistance Program provided free in-person tax assistance at ten branches this year, helping 2,099 patrons. That’s over a 47% increase from 2024, when the total number was 1,424. Also, many thanks to the Customer Connect team for making well over 700 Tax-Aide appointments during this year’s tax season. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1)
	Adult Services hosted the first-ever St. Louis Area Volunteer Fair at the Clark Family Branch on Monday, April 28. More than 360 attendees came to meet with 36 local organizations currently seeking volunteers. Many attendees said they appreciated the chance to learn about different ways to get involved in the community and praised the organizational efforts of the Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared Webster Groves Municipal Court has agreed to partner with the Tap In Center. We are now able to serve people who have a bench warrant issued by the Webster Groves Municipal Court. This includes recalling the warrant, setting a new court date, and hooking them up with the Bail Project for court reminders and transportation assistance. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	In May, St. Louis County Library partnered with Opera Theatre of Saint Louis to present an exclusive preview of the company’s 50th anniversary season. Four professional opera singers, accompanied by a live pianist, performed selections from A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Die Fledermaus, Don Pasquale, Genius Child, Only Heaven, The Turn of the Screw, and more. The program was met with enthusiasm from both Library employees and patrons, offering a memorable glimpse into the 2025 festival season for over 230 attendees. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Over 450 Library patrons redeemed over 1,000 complimentary tickets to performances during the 2024–2025 St. Louis Symphony season. Ms. Sorth said we are grateful to the Symphony for offering our patrons the opportunity to experience the symphony at no cost.  The Library was honored to host a special free concert on Monday, June 3 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide. Over 500 people attended this meaningful event, made possible through a partnership with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, the Center for Bosnian Studies, and the Srebrenica Remembrance Coalition. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	This year’s Adult Summer Reading Club is underway. Over 8,500 adults registered during the first week of the program. Participants receive a free book upon registration and a navy “I HEART MY LIBRARY” baseball cap upon completion.  This summer’s Adult Summer Reading Club features many special events, as well, including summer concerts at multiple branches and a Skate Party at Florissant Valley. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3d)
	Ms. Sorth shared on Saturday, May 31, the STL Summer Adventure began with a fun day at the James S. McDonnell Planetarium. St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library again joined forces with Play Day in the Park to celebrate the importance of play and to jumpstart STL Summer Adventure. The libraries hosted a large tent where families signed up for STL Summer Adventure and picked up their free book. We had 1,250 people go through our tent at the event. STL Summer Adventure will officially run June 1-August 10.  STL Summer Adventure ads are running on NinePBS, St. Louis Public Radio, KTRS, GO!, the St. Louis American, Facebook and Instagram. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2b, Increase Access 2a)
	The Library has phonics based games available for circulation as part of our Gateway to Reading initiative. Patrons can check out a Gateway to Reading Game for a fun, interactive way to build phonics-based reading skills. Games are geared towards children in PreK-3rd grade. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, 2b)
	The Library will be hosting a Teen after Hours Social Event at the Natural Bridge Branch on Friday, June 27 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. The event will include video games, crafts, pizza and a DJ. The program is being made possible through a grant from the St. Louis Area Violence Prevention Commission. The commission works to reduce violent crime in the region by promoting and advocating for coordinated, well-resourced policies, support systems, and interventions among area governments, institutions and agencies that serve individuals and families most at risk of violent crime. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library will host a series of Sunday concerts at the Clark Family Branch from June – September.  The first event was a celebration of Pride Month was held on June 8th and featured the Gateway Men’s Chorus and CHARIS, the St. Louis Women’s Chorus.  July’s concert topic will be about classical guitar, August will be about Latin Music and September will be a preview of the Sheldon’s upcoming season. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b)
	The Library’s Battle of the Bands is back. Entries will be accepted online through June 23rd.  Five branches will be chosen to compete at the competition on August 1 at Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: Alien Yoga at Parkview, Kindness Grows Musical at Clark Family, Wonderland Tea Party at Weber Road, Star Wars Fan Fast at Grant’s View, Chinese Culture Celebration at Thornhill, Adventures of the Lost Treasures at Mid-County, Pride Concert at Clark Family, and Learn to DJ at Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
	Last week was the first week of summer camp at the Clark Family Branch.  A mom sent the following comment. “This has been an amazing event! I hope you continue to do it in the future.  I feel like this may spark a desire to be a designer for Isaac in the future. The food is epic and the projects are so special and relevant to today's kids. Isaac actually tells me details of his day instead of just saying it was fine.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth shared the Natural Bridge Branch’s regular teen patrons Jermaiah and Ricky came into the branch to show their Certificate of Recognition for completing eighth grade. They have promised that they are going to complete high school and visit the branch with their future certificates. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1, 2, Sense of Community 1a, 3b)
	We had many teens visiting the Clark Family Branch again during finals weeks.  These teens took the whiteboard out to the outdoor reading deck. (Plan: Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a)
	Congratulations to our 148th Excel High School graduate! She dropped out of school after 8th grade to take care of her 16 siblings. Now she wants to be the first woman in her family to graduate from college. She will become an ultrasound tech, hopefully starting with the Washington University program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c)
	Hi! I had jury duty yesterday and was happy to see multiple advertisements for the Library in the Juror waiting room. There was a poster on the wall, a bookshelf filled with discarded Library books and magazines. The slide show on the monitors had a link/QR code to the ePopUp. Many of the fellow jurors were pulling reading materials off the shelves. One woman saw the poster with the QR code and actually squealed with excitement and went to the front of the room to scan the code with her phone. As an employee, it made me feel proud of the outreach work we do at the library. Just wanted to let everyone know that it is definitely being used and appreciated! (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, Increase Access 2c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth shared designer Tay Tuteur created a custom illustrated brochure for the Pride month. Brochures are available at all branches, and promotions started the first week of June. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b, Increase Access 2a)
	Communications is working on a paid ad campaign with Telemundo, promoting STL Summer Adventure and other Library services. This includes a recorded segment on Acceso Total featuring an interview, social media posts, web ads, and a 30-second commercial. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3a, Increase Access 2a)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library will host a press conference next Friday, June 20th at 10:00 a.m. at Clark Family to announce the expansion of the ePopUp Library program to five local medical facilities that support children and their families and caregivers.  This idea came directly from an individual who attended the Fellows Experience through Greater St. Louis Inc. at the Clark Family Branch in January.  Eric, Carrie and Deborah all spoke to the group about Library programs and services.  The attendee suggested that our current ePopUp program would be an excellent addition at Children's Hospital.  Ms. Sorth said everyone agreed and she reached out to her contacts at Children's, Cardinal Glennon, Ranken Jordan Pediatric Bridge Hospital, Shrines and Ronald McDonald House and they all enthusiastically said yes. She said everyone has been working out the details over the last several months and are ready to launch.  All of these medical facilities will have a curated collection of children, teen and adult books for their patients and families to read by scanning a QR code where they can download books for free onto their device.  They do not need a library card or even to live in Missouri. Ms. Sorth said we know that so many people from around the State and Country visit the amazing world class medical facilities in St. Louis and we wanted to provide access to books.  SLCL will provide posters, flyers and bookmarks to patients and their families.
The original program continues at the airport, Schnucks, St. Louis County Government offices and on Metro/BiState vehicles.  This program https://www.slcl.org/news/slcl-introduces-new-emedia-service-airport-metro-transit-schnucks-st-louis-county-offices was supported by the Clark Family and the expansion to children's hospitals and facilities is also supported by the Clark Family.  Bob and Jane and their family loved the idea. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 2a, 2c, Increase Access 2c)
	In May, members of the Belonging Working Group volunteered at Operation Food Search where they organized and packed bread for people facing food insecurity. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d, 2d, Sense of Community 3a)
	On Sunday, April 27, the Library hosted Gather and Glow at the Saint Louis Zoo. This new employee appreciation evening was held in conjunction with the Animals Aglow lantern festival. The evening featured a stunning display of illuminated animal sculptures throughout the Zoo grounds, including dragons, bears, frogs, butterflies, and orchids. Employees were welcomed at The Living World, where they enjoyed an array of refreshments.  The event provided a unique opportunity for employees to connect outside of the work environment and have a wonderful evening with their families in a joyful setting. Feedback from employees was overwhelmingly positive, with many expressing appreciation for the experience and enthusiasm for continuing this new tradition in future years. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	The Employee Engagement Committee has launched two quarterly initiatives as a way to connect, share and recognize employees and their contributions: the Bookish Club and Behind the Stacks. The Bookish Club is for all Library employees and has quarterly themes. The first theme was “books that remind you of your childhood” in which employees left comments about books that they liked as a child. Behind the Stacks is a quarterly digital newsletter that has information about employees, accomplishments, programming success stories, raffles, and a new video concept with the same title. In the video, employees are selected by the Committee and choose ten questions to answer on video. The short video is a fun and interactive way to get to know. Both the Bookish Club and Behind the Stacks take place on the Library’s intranet, Stacks, making them accessible to all employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	This summer, employees have two fun initiatives: Summer Reading Club and the Design a Bookmark Contest. Employees that complete the Summer Reading Club challenges will be entered into a raffle to win prizes.  In the Design a Bookmark Contest, any employee can submit original art on a bookmark with the theme “Where Do You Read?”  Winners will be chosen by a committee and Communications will professionally print the bookmarks in time to distribute to branches for Book Lovers Day on August 9. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Library is offering Wellness Screening again this year.  The screenings are free to all full time employees and include over 50 biometric screenings to determine one’s health status. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	In May, Ms. Sorth hosted Library Directors from the seven largest library districts in the State.  The Library Directors/CEOs from Springfield-Greene, Daniel Boone Regional, KC Public, Mid-Continent, St. Charles City-County and St. Louis Public all attended at the Clark Family Branch. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth presented on a panel for Focus St. Louis at their inaugural Start with Leadership Conference that took place at the Touhill and was attended by over 200 attendees.  Her session’s topic was “Growing Together:  Regional Leadership Through Collaboration and Collective Vision”  Her fellow panelist included former executive and current community volunteer June Fowler, Amy Shaw from the Nine Network, Ryan McClure from Arch Park, and Julie Murphy from FMS Strategies.  Missy Kelley from Anderson CPA moderated the Panel. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	The Library will be partnering with the History Museum on their New to St. Louis Program where they provide information and a bus tour to those new to St. Louis. Ms. Sorth attended an event on June 13th and discussed Library programs and services. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	The design process continues for the new Chesterfield Branch.  We are currently in the Design Development phase of the project, which means that we are starting to explore the interior details and finishes with the architects and interior designers. The project will be presented to the City of Chesterfield Architectural Review Board on June 18th. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	Ms. Sorth shared Facilities and Building Systems employees are currently completing the one-year walk through of the Clark Family Branch with the architects and contractors.  This will close out our warranty period for the construction of this project.  She said we received our official final occupancy approval from Ladue for the Clark Family project.  This required the replacement of all of the dead trees and plants around the site. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	In other final repairs around the Clark Family Branch, the cloudy glass handrail panels have been removed and replaced with new glass.  New film was also installed on these panels.  ICS will be removing sections of the bench seating throughout the building to replace the sagging foam pieces with a more durable foam material.  Our Facilities team and staff from LJC have also met with representatives from Lilliput Play Homes.  This new feature has been well loved by the younger patrons of the branch and it is beginning to show signs of wear much more quickly than
we would have anticipated.  Lilliput sent one of their team members to St. Louis to repaint the fire engine and make other needed small repairs.  They will be returning in late summer to review the playhouse and determine what other steps might be needed to better maintain their product. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	Thanks to the help of an Alison Grant, a new teen gaming area has been created at the Lewis & Clark Branch.  Building Systems employees helped with the removal of an existing counter and the installation of the new monitor which the teens are sure to enjoy. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3b, Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Library has been very lucky during the recent series of storms. There have been a few small roof repairs needed throughout the system.  There was a lightning strike at Grant’s View which damaged a few of the parking lot lights as well as many of the cameras in and around the building.  Repairs to these systems are ongoing. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth reported two trees on the Grand Glaize property fell due to supersaturated soil and high winds. She said we had an arborist take a look at these trees and they were determined to be healthy at the time that they fell.  The City of Manchester has requested that we review the health of several other trees in this area.  She said we are currently working with an arborist to determine which trees may need to be removed. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	MSD has completed their initial work of replacing their sewers along the Clarkson Road and Clarkson Pines Lane.  They have added sod over the disturbed area along Clarkson Road, but they still need to patch the portions of paving which were removed from the Branch’s south parking lot. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation and Grants
	The St. Louis County Library Foundation is preparing for their annual fundraising event scheduled for August 9th from 6:00 - 10:00 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch. This year the Foundation is hosting an outdoor movie night complete with food trucks and themed cocktails. Tickets to this event will be $75 for general admission and $150 for VIP admission. Tickets will be available for purchase in early May. The fundraising goal for this event is $160,000. Ms. Sorth announced the Library will close the Clark Family Branch at 1:00 p.m. on August 9th to prepare for the event. (Plan: Increase Access 1b, 2b, 2c)
	Ms. Sorth shared the Spring Appeal for the Foundation went out in early May, and as of today has raised $40,103 which is 115% of its $35,000 goal. These are all unrestricted funds. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	On May 20th, the Foundation hosted its annual Donor Breakfast at the Clark Family Branch. The Foundation welcomed 100 Friends members and donors to enjoy breakfast and a presentation by author Michelle Young. This was the first year this event had a waitlist to attend. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
	Foundation and Library Grants:
		Two grants that the Library was participating in were terminated due to “changes in administration priorities”:
			A Lifetime Arts grant through the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)
			A grant with the Danforth Plant Science Center to create STEM summer programs for adults through the National Science Foundation (NSF)
		The Library received a $10,000 Building Library Capacity grant from the American Library Association. Only 16 grants were awarded nationally. This award will support services for immigrant and refugee children and families twice a week at Weber Road and Rock Road Branches from June 30-August 22. A case manager and therapist from local nonprofit Monarch Immigration Services will offer drop-in services to immigrant & refugee families during Summer Meals, focusing on mental health & social & emotional wellness. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2c, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
		The Library Foundation received a $2,500 grant from Delta Dental to support Gateway to Reading. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a)
		The Library Foundation received a $15,000 grant from the Norman J Stupp Foundation to support 2 years of the Sidney Johnson Summer Internship program for high school students. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 3b)
		The Library Foundation received a $15,000 grant from the Pott Foundation to support MetroMarket stops this summer at the Lewis & Clark Branch. (Plan: Sense of Community 2a, 3a, 3c)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
	Ms. Sorth gave an Author Series Update - Year to date:
		# of authors: 82
		Attendance: 18,750
		2024 totals: 144 authors/33,000 attendees
June/July 2025 Author Events
	Megan Abbott, author of “El Dorado Drive,” Wednesday, June 25, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	J. Courtney Sullivan, author of “The Cliffs,” Thursday, June 26, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Carol Moseley Braun, author of “Trailblazer: Perseverance in Life and Politics,’ Friday, June 27, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	SOLD OUT/TICKETED EVENT - Peter Brown, author of “The Wild Robot on the Island,” Sunday, June 29, 2025, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Hazel Gaynor, author of “Before Dorothy,” Monday, June 30, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Martin Walker, author of “An Enemy in the Village: A Bruno, Chief of Police Novel,” Monday, July 7, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Clemence Michallon, author of “Our Last Resort,” Wednesday, July 9, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Linda Castillo, author of “Rage: A Kate Burkholder Mystery,” Thursday, July 10, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Ruth Ware, author of “The Woman in Suite 11,” Saturday, July 12, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Tom Mitchell, author of “Early Stories by Tennessee Williams/Tennessee Williams Festival Season Preview, Monday, July 14, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Scott Ellsworth, author of “Midnight on the Potomac: The Last Year of the Civil War, The Lincoln Assassination, and the Rebirth of America,” Tuesday, July 15, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	John McManus, author of “American Courage, American Carnage,” with “Burden of Command” Video Game Designer Luke Hughes, Thursday, July 17, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Mary Jo Bang, author of “Paradiso,” Thursday, July 24, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Holly Jackson, author of “Not Quite Dead Yet,” Monday, July 28, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Laurie Gwen Shapiro, author of “The Aviator and the Showman: Amelia Earhart, George Putnam and the Marriage That Made an American Icon,” Tuesday, July 29, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Daniel Kraus, author of “Angel Down,” Wednesday, July 30, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
Materials Reconsideration Actions
Date Submitted                        Item                                        Decision of Committee
2/12/2025                                Twin Cities                              Reclassified from Juvenile to Teen
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
2025 STAFF DEVELOPMENT COHORT
Tarza Tawfiq, Employee Relations Coordinator, introduced the 2025 Staff Development Cohort:
KB Benson, Library Associate, Cliff Cave Branch
Lauren Budde, Library Associate, Weber Road
Alysia Collins, Library Associate, Daniel Boone Branch
Bethany Cutkomp, Library Associate, Prairie Commons
Cheryl Hager, Library Associate, Lewis and Clark Branch
Matthew Krieg, Library Associate, Oak Bend Branch
Zoe Maffitt, Library Clerk, Mid-County Branch
Gregg Minnis, Custodian, Custodial Department
Rhiannon Oaks, Library Associate, Bookmobile and Mobile Services Department
Michael Schawacker, Staff Trainer, Training Department
AMENDMENT TO THE CONTRACT WITH EPWORTH CHILDREN AND FAMILY SERVICES
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following recommendation:
Library Administration recommends that the Board authorize the Library Director and CEO to enter into and execute an amendment to the existing contract with Epworth Children and Family Services to approve and ratify the continuation of social worker services from May 1, 2025 through July 31, 2025 at an approximate cost of $121,644. These expenses are covered by the funding from CSF and other private funding sources.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
BOILER REPLACEMENT - GRAND GLAIZE BRANCH
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the following recommendation:
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select American Boiler Services, Inc. to provide a Boiler Replacement at the Grand Glaize Branch for a cost of $186,591, and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
MODOT EASEMENT REQUEST - DANIEL BOONE BRANCH
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the following recommendation:
Administration recommends the Library Board approve the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Easement for Highway Purposes and authorize the Director and CEO to execute the agreement.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - HEALTH INSURANCE
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following recommendation:
The Library Administration, in consultation with Daniel and Henry, is recommending that we remain with Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and change to the $2,000/$4,000 deductible plan, which will make the renewal 10.2%. The budgeted amount for the health insurance renewal was 10%.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – DENTAL, VISION, ANCILLARY, SHORT TERM DISABILITY, LIFE INSURANCE, AD&D, LONG-TERM DISABILITY & VOLUNTARY LIFE
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following recommendation:
The Library Administration in consultation with Daniel and Henry is recommending that we remain with Delta Dental for dental insurance, VSP for vision insurance, and Nationwide for pet insurance. Administration is also recommending staying with The Hartford for short term disability, life insurance, AD&D, long-term disability, voluntary life, critical illness and accident insurance.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
BUDGETING SOFTWARE
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following recommendation:
The Library Administration recommends that the Library Board accept the lowest and best proposal from Euna Solutions with a cost of $31,440 for Year 1, $25,637 for Year 2 and $26,406 for Year 3 for a total three-year cost of $83,483. The Library Board also authorizes the Director & CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Deborah Patterson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
All approved by voice vote.
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Meeting adjourned at 4:34 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
Joan Barry                                                                              Date
Secretary