{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBSTMY781C93",
  "date": "2025-09-29T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, September 25, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
May Scheve Reardon, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
Johnny Wang, President, and Deborah Patterson, Vice President, were absent.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director, Roberto Münster, CAO, Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Courtney Harris, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Katie Keeven, Adeline Chow, Sarah Wood, Kalin Preston, Brent Trout, Trista Doyle, Sarah Jones, Michelle Hawkins, Christina Schwaller, Will LaChance, Matt Lakin, Melissa Bauer, Carla Maxwell, Laura Kasak, Amy Luchun, Chris Goodman, Miranda Gibson, Miriam Whatley, Anne Arthur, Beth Watts, Andrea Johnson, Nicole Walsh, Cheri Remington, Carrie Robb, Amy Gibbons, Ashley Sexton, Spring Galey, Kelli Reeves, Annie Fuller, Deanna Davis, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Mary Arnhart, Stephanie Nordmann, Alaina Culbertson, Amy Hanaway, Tarza Tawfiq and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the August 18, 2025 Library Board minutes.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one to speak before the board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the September 2025 report.
Administration recommended approval of the September 23, 2025, Treasurer's Report, subject to audit.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
	Ms. Sorth welcomed the new Chief Administrative Officer, Roberto Munster, to the Library. The executive search firm received over 170 applications for the position. Becky Maue and Ms. Sorth interviewed nine people who were selected, after an extensive screening process by EMD Consulting, as finalists.  They narrowed it down from there to three. The three finalists were able to meet with their direct reports and their peers and had a final interview with Ms. Sorth and Ms. Maue.  Roberto has a B.S. in Finance and a B.A. in Economics from the University of Maryland.  He also has a Master's Degree in Public Policy from the University of Maryland.  Roberto has worked for Chemonics International since 2011 in various roles including most recently as the Senior Director of Operations and Senior Director of Data and AI.  Chemonics International has over 4,000 employees on six continents.  They design and implement projects to promote social and economic development worldwide, focusing on areas like health, agriculture, education, and economic growth often in partnership with agencies like USAID.  As the chief of staff in the organization's two largest business units, Roberto had responsibility for leadership and administration, HR, security management, financial management, and business development. Roberto introduced himself to the Board. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
	Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for September. With school back in session for a good part of the month, circulation and branch visits both decreased, as is typical in August.  Over the summer, both children’s books and eMedia saw the highest circulation with eMedia making up 33% of the Library’s circulation. The Gateway to Reading kits continue to be popular and have circulated 3,092 times since becoming available in February of this year.  The Library distributed 968 COVID tests, 26 gun locks, 18 Narcan kits, 19 Comfort Kits, and 64 locking medicine bags and caps in September. Library employees provided notary services to 2,790 patrons and our social workers aided 253 patrons. The busiest branch for notary services in August was the Lewis & Clark Branch. Lewis & Clark employees notarized documents for 412 individuals. The Cliff Cave Branch distributed the largest number of COVID tests, giving out 328 tests. Social workers at the Florissant Valley Branch assisted the largest number of patrons, helping 58 patrons in August. Programming remained strong in August.  The Library hosted 30,493 patrons in 2,986 sessions which is a 21% increase in sessions over August 2024. This included seven author visits with 1,660 attendees. This last month 1,823 patrons booked a trainer, librarian, or genealogist.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1c)
	The Tap In Center (TIC) is celebrating its fifth anniversary this month.  What began as a budding concept presented to St. Louis County Library by Miranda Gibson following the closure of courts during the COVID pandemic has blossomed into a busy weekly service offered at the Library.  Through strategic partnerships with the St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney’s office, the St. Louis County Public Defender’s office, the Bail Project, and St. Louis County Library, the program has helped thousands of individuals resolve warrants.  The TIC has expanded its reach and now includes partnerships with many municipalities in the area.  Furthermore, the innovative TIC has been replicated in Kansas City and Columbus, Ohio, and other communities across the United States are in the process of establishing a similar model based on the success at SLCL.  In the five years since launching, the TIC has served more than 3,300 individuals by recalling over 5,000 warrants.  The TIC has seen tremendous growth in the last year in particular, with nearly 70% of all warrants recalled coming in just 2025.  Miranda continues this important work in her new role as Assistant Manager of Justice Services at SLCL. (Plan: Sense of Community 3b)
	The Library partnered with the Nine Network - PBS to host a balloon and activities at the Great Forest Park Balloon Glow and Race.  Bookmobile and Mobile Services employees and employees from other departments attended the event.  The Emerson Bookmobile welcomed over 5,500 people and employees checked out nearly 10,000 books to event attendees.  Additionally, 25 new library cards were created for patrons who did not already have them.  The team achieved these incredible numbers despite a weather cancellation on Saturday afternoon.  We are so pleased that the Nine Network reached out to partner with the Library for this major event. (Plan: Sense of Community 2a, 2b)
	Ms. Sorth shared the Library continues to partner with St. Louis County and other local organizations to help inform residents about the benefits that may be available to them under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA).  The Library is playing a critical role in the promotional campaign and is assisting people in locating documentation to prove their eligibility.  The Library hosted one virtual and two in-person sessions with eight other locations serving as in-person viewing locations for the event at Florissant Valley Branch. We welcomed 160 people to the in-person information session at Clark Family Branch.  On the following Monday, 224 people attended the in-person session at Florissant Valley Branch with 204 people watching at the eight branch satellite locations.  The recording of the virtual session is on the Library’s YouTube page and has been viewed almost 3,000 times.  The partners are planning for another virtual event to be hosted by the Library on October 28th from 6:00 – 8:00 p.m.  This event will be recorded and placed on the Library’s YouTube page.  The Library also launched a RECA webpage including a form for submitting RECA requests.  The History and Genealogy Department have had 1,467 in-person and email lookups during the month of September and 622 during August with a total of 2,089 requests.  The branches and Customer Connect are also helping patrons with RECA including almost 1,000 over the phone and via email requests and hundreds in person at our locations.   The Library’s Digital Archive contains many local newspapers, city and county directories, and yearbooks that are applicable to RECA.  August views of the archive were at an all-time high at 26,243 from 3,285 individuals. Many users contacted the Library over the phone and in-person to provide certifications for documents. In addition to the increase in Digital Archive statistics, several schools contacted the department to arrange yearbook loans to help mitigate some of their RECA requests from the public. History & Genealogy also made an agreement with St. Charles City County Library to digitize their directories in order to assist with RECA claims.  The Staff Trainers have also made videos for patrons to assist with their efforts to find RECA documentation. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	The Ozarks Genealogical Society (OGS) is closing its library and beginning to move toward dissolving. OGS officials contacted History & Genealogy to transfer their entire collection to the Library. Arrangements have been made at no cost to SLCL to acquire 13,000 volumes of material, 300 maps, and 3,000 periodicals from OGS. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3)
	The Eureka Hills Branch hosted 375 people at an After Hours Family Campout on Friday, August 22, from 6:00-9:00 p.m. The free event featured hands-on experiences celebrating the great outdoors including interactive exhibits from local organizations, visits with animals, performances for children, refreshments, a scavenger hunt, selfie stations, and more. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Senior Bookmobile schedule will change from bi-weekly visits to monthly visits to senior living facilities, memory care facilities and adult daycare locations in order to provide service to more sites. This will allow this important service to grow from 80 to 105 total sites. That is a 24% increase in service.  New sites will continue to be invited to receive service. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 2a)
	The Library will present an exciting lineup of over 75 programs for all ages during September and October in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month. For the first time ever, all of the programs will be listed in a brochure, making it easier for patrons to explore the diverse range of offerings. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
	There were 128 people in attendance at this year’s Clothing Swap on Saturday, September 13 at the Daniel Boone Branch. Over 1,100 items were donated and organized at the branch and fewer than 200 items remained by the end of the day on September 13th. All leftover items were then picked up by Remains Textile Recycling the following week. The event was very impactful for attendees including women going through chemotherapy and new moms among others in attendance. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth said on September 15, Adult Services hosted the first Library Cooking Class at the Operation Food Search (OFS) Teaching Kitchen.  At this inaugural program, eleven attendees learned how to “Make Vegetables Exciting and Delicious” by preparing roasted tomatoes, zucchini, and bell peppers paired with a homemade chimichurri sauce. The eight stations in the OFS Teaching Kitchen are equipped with stoves, blenders, cutting boards, and all the tools typically found in a home kitchen. Attendees expressed appreciation for the Library’s offering of this unique program and shared enthusiasm for future SLCL/OFS programming partnerships. The next class on October 6 is full with sixteen registrants signed up to learn how to make “Creative, Nutritious Pasta.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	On Saturday, October 4, from 10:00 a.m.–2:00 p.m., Adult Services will partner with the National Park Service, Great Rivers Greenway, and the Thomas Sappington House Museum to present Bike the Branches during the Fall into Fitness Challenge. Families and individuals are invited to ride between the Grant’s View and Oak Bend Branches, starting at either location, and stop at sites along Grant’s Trail to explore the region’s history and earn prizes. Along the way, participants can enjoy drop-in stretching sessions, kids’ activities, free donuts and Gus’ Pretzels. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth announced the annual online adult high school graduation ceremony will take place on Saturday, October 18th at 6:00 PM at the Clark Family Branch.  We will celebrate the achievements of 26 graduates and enjoy an inspiring keynote address from our own Sandy Williams. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 3c)
	STL Summer Adventure took place from June 1 - August 10.  We partnered with St. Louis Public Library to offer a region-wide summer challenge for kids and teens. The Library also partnered with Forest Park Forever, The Magic House, Missouri Botanical Garden, Missouri History Museum, Gateway Arch, Saint Louis Zoo, and the Saint Louis Science Center. These organizations were part of the activities and helped promote the program. 32,762 kids and teens ages 0-17 registered at St. Louis County Library and 19,959 (61%) completed the challenge. With the numbers from St. Louis Public Library, over 39,735 kids and teens participated in STL Summer Adventure in the St. Louis area. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 3a).
	The Little Readers Festival took place on Saturday, September 27 from 10:00-1:00 p.m. at the Florissant Valley Branch and Bangert Park. This was a free, fun festival for families with children ages 0-5 featuring activities, shaved ice, free books, musical performances, and story time. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Increase Access 1b)
	Ms. Sorth shared the Library will be celebrating teens throughout the month of October with Teentober programs and events. Teens can also participate in the Teentober Bingo Challenge. To complete the challenge they must complete three activities in a row, column or diagonal for a chance to win a $50 Target gift card. (Plan: Sense of Community 3b)
	Per the Board of Elections, the following six branches will serve as voting sites for the November 4th election:
		Mid-County
		Clark Family
		Daniel Boone
		Meramec Valley
		Cliff Cave
		Eureka Hills.
The Board of Elections also plans to use Daniel Boone Branch and Cliff Cave Branch for two days of satellite voting on November 1 and 3. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1)
	September is Diaper Needs Awareness Month.  In partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank, the Library is hosting a Diaper Drive benefiting the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank.  Donations of size 5 and 6 diapers and training pants of all sizes are most needed. Partial and open packs will be accepted. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
	The Grant’s View Branch hosted a Pokémon Fan Fast on Friday, September 12th.  The event included crafts, games, activities, a game night, and art demonstrations.  They had 1,350 people in attendance.  The event was supported by the St. Louis County Library Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth shared the 2025 Small Business Launchpad concluded in August, with eight entrepreneurs completing the third cohort of this program. Over the course of the series, the participants engaged in weekly sessions covering key topics like the entrepreneurial mindset, business planning, financial management, and marketing strategies. Six founders presented at the final pitch competition on August 27. Thanks to a St. Louis County Port Authority grant, each graduate received a 14" Dell laptop, and with a generous donation from the Clark Family, three winners received business capital to support their business:
		Kenneth Moore (Master Teacher Tutoring Services) – 1st place ($5,000): Focuses on addressing educational gaps by virtually tutoring 3rd–6th graders.
		Quavonte Logan (MFK Transportation) – 2nd place ($3,000): Plans to launch W2 Express, an employee shuttle service for areas not covered by public transit.
		Christopher Jones (Who's Next Barber Shop) – Audience Favorite ($2,000): Offers a unique "Clips for Clips" initiative, using the barbershop as a space for mentorship and resources for youth. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c, Sense of Community 3a, 3b)
	There were 59 applicants for this year’s Novel Creations program. Of those applicants, forty have accepted the invitation to be in the program for eight weeks starting September 10th. This year, the ending of Novel Creations will be a Holiday Pop Up Market on Saturday, November 29th at Clark Family Branch. This is Small Business Saturday. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The Library is hosting a free conference for entrepreneurs, small business owners, and nonprofit leaders. The Small Business & Nonprofit Conference will take place October 8 – 10.  The conference offers three days of in-person and virtual networking and education on a variety of business-critical skills and strategies. Sessions will take place at the Clark Family Branch and virtually via Zoom.  In 2024, nearly 1,700 individuals attended the Small Business & Nonprofit Conference. This year’s line-up includes 53 programs on topics including podcasting, AI, cybersecurity, grant readiness, public speaking, video production, business plan tips, fundraising and board engagement. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth shared there were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Here are pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: After School Chess, Bilingual Story Time, How to Draw Pokémon, MetroMarket, Local Family History, Family Carnival Night, and the Sunday Concert Series.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Ms. Sorth shared the following impact stories:
	I met a parent at Wednesday’s Washington Elementary Open House who told me that being able to go to Natural Bridge after school when she was a teen saved her life.  She told me how much she appreciated the friendly environment, and especially the encouragement that staff gave her over the course of her teen years. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	At a meeting with the Head of Education from the Transition Center, Nicole told us that the residents using Skill Mill are flying through the courses. One individual took all of the HVAC courses and once he was released from the Transition Center he got a job immediately with a union, due to his certificates.  Another resident took several small business classes from the Library. He has since been released from the Transition Center and has a thriving clothing business in St. Louis that has gone "viral." (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, 3c, Sense of Community 3b)
	Yesterday I attended the Backstage Preview of the Rep’s upcoming season and it was AMAZING! I enjoyed every second of it and I cannot wait to buy my season pass!  During the opening moments a speaker said that other cultural venues from the St. Louis area were also clamoring to host their own previews and I desperately want to put myself on their mailing lists so I can go to more nights like that one. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1)
	Patron called to give a HUGE shout-out to SLCL, specifically the H&G staff, for all of their hard work in researching and verifying residency documents for everyone seeking assistance with their RECA forms.  This patron attended the presentation at Clark Family Branch and filled out the residency documentation form, she knew it would take a while to receive her information and she was perfectly happy to wait.  She received her information on Tuesday - just 3 days after submitting the request.  She is so thankful for everyone's hard work and dedication to helping people find the necessary information to file their claims. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	A patron called, insisting on speaking with someone who helps organize the free Library Nights at The Magic House. He wanted to say how much he appreciated the opportunity, because he works with families from Afghanistan who otherwise cannot afford to go. They attended Monday night 7/28 and had a great time. He said they also bring the kids to Bridgeton Trails Branch and complimented the library on all the great programming offered. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, Sense of Community 3b)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth said during the pandemic and after, the Library has partnered with St. Louis County’s Department of Human Services (DHS).  Ms. Sorth, Eric Button and Lead Social Worker, Katie Lappe met with several representatives from DHS at the Natural Bridge Branch to discuss how we can continue with the partnership.  From that meeting, DHS will provide 100 winter care bags, plus 30 each of the following: coats, gloves, hats and scarves, and blankets.  She said we are very thankful for the partnership. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The Employee Engagement Committee’s (EEC) goal is to support a work environment where every employee feels valued, empowered, and inspired. The EEC encourages employees’ involvement and presents activities that boost the Library’s workplace culture, as well as the emotional and social well-being of employees. The EEC will plan, schedule and execute Employee Engagement Day which is scheduled for Monday, October 13 at the Clark Family Branch.  All full-time employees are required to attend.  Attendance is optional for those who are part-time.  The Library Board approved a Library District closure on October 13 for this event. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library is hosting a community-wide challenge called Branch Out, inviting St. Louisans to explore their local libraries. The Branch Out Challenge takes place September 2 - October 31 at all 20 SLCL branches. All branches are hosting fun activities during the Challenge, including scavenger hunts, crafts and interactive displays. Participants can collect stamps and stickers in a colorful passport, or track their progress online.  The Branch Out Challenge invites community members to visit an SLCL branch for the first time, get a library card, check out a new branch, or rediscover everything the Library has to offer.  Communications is continuing to promote the challenge on social media–posting video tours twice a week on Instagram, Facebook and TikTok. There is a playlist on YouTube with longer branch tour videos. The Branch Out webpage has been visited over 4,000 times since the program launched.  Thus far 1,174 people have signed up for the program.  (Plan: Increase Access 1, 2a, 2c, 2d)
	Communications is working on marketing materials for the 2025 St. Louis Storytelling Festival including a print booklet, social graphics, a promotional video and more. A transit campaign advertising the Festival will run from 9/29 - 11/16 at bus and Metro Link stops throughout the City and County. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	The Library is once again partnering with the St. Louis County Board of Elections to host a design contest for “I Voted” and “Future Voter” stickers. Communications created marketing materials and a landing page for the contest. Entries will be accepted Monday, September 29, through Friday, October 17 at https://www.slcl.org/voting-sticker-contest. The winning stickers will be professionally printed by the BOE and distributed to polling places throughout the County in 2026. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	Ms. Sorth shared this week the Missouri History Museum launched I Am St. Louis, a civic identity campaign designed to build a deeper sense of place attachment to the St. Louis region. Area businesses and institutions were invited to show their pride in St. Louis while also sharing what makes them a vital part of the St. Louis region. SLCL is participating in the campaign through social media.  Here is our post.
		I am the busiest public library in Missouri.
		I am the center of community for our region offering free programs and services for all ages.
		I am 20 unique branches that you can visit during our Branch Out Challenge happening thru October 31.
		I am home to the largest author event series of any public library in the U.S.
		I am St. Louis County Library.
		I am St. Louis. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Lamar Johnson Collaborative will be presenting renderings of the new Chesterfield Branch to the Library Board later in the meeting.  The selection of a coffee vendor will also be reviewed by the Library Board. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
	Ms. Sorth reported that Library Journal hosted its yearly Design Institute at the Clark Family Branch on September 25th.  This event brought together librarians, architects, and vendors from around the country to discuss the current trends and evolutions in library design.  Over sixty people attended the event.  Tours of the Clark Family Branch were given before the event began and many times throughout the day.  Attendees were very appreciative of our employees and of those at SLCL who worked to make the event successful.  They were also completely in awe of the building.  She said she could not be more proud to work at St. Louis County Library. (Plan: Increase Access 1, 2c)
	Lilliput representatives recently came to make repairs and upgrades to the playhouse and fire engine in the Clark Family Branch children’s area.  They changed the stair treads which were showing signs of damage and added trim to the top edge of the fire engine.  They also touched up paint on many of the playhouse surfaces. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The seal and stripe projects that were approved in the 2025 Library Budget were recently completed at Lewis & Clark, Meramec Valley, and Parkview Branches. (Plan: Increase Access 2a)
	New furniture was delivered to the Lewis & Clark Branch to replace furniture that was showing significant use and wear in the adult collection and teen area.  New tables were also installed in Lewis & Clark’s study rooms.  Weber Road, Natural Bridge, and Bridgeton Trails Branches all received new ottomans for their children’s areas, and Natural Bridge Branch received new chairs for their teen area.  Our efforts to maintain the appearance of the branches continue throughout this year. (Plan: Increase Access 1a)
Library Foundation and Grants
	Ms. Sorth reported the Foundation hosted its first planned giving webinar in collaboration with the Adult Services department on September 17th.  650 people registered online, and 250 people were in attendance live. This is the first of a planned quarterly slate of programming to help grow the planned giving program. (Plan: Increase Access 2b)
	The Foundation’s biannual newsletter will arrive in the mail in early October.  The newsletter will have coverage of the fundraising event and listings for all donors, friends and grantors. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	The Fall Appeal will arrive in the mail in late October/Early November. The theme this year is “Your Impact Travels” and will share how a donation to the Foundation makes an impact all across the region. The fundraising goal is $42,000. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
	Library and Foundation Grants
		The Library Foundation received a $25,000 grant from PNC Foundation to support Gateway to Reading in 2026, including the addition of circulating decodable read-aloud Wonderbooks. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2a)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth reported the Author Series Update - Year to date:
# of authors: 119
Attendance: 28,405
2024 totals: 144 authors/33,000 attendees
Tickets are on sale now for fall events with:
	Bestselling suspense author Elizabeth George - Friday, October 3 – Clark Family Branch
	Popular YA historical fiction author Alan Gratz - Thursday, October 16 - Clark Family Branch
	Award-winning YA author and former National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature Jason Reynolds - Friday, October 17 - Clark Family Branch
	Bestselling horror novelist Joe Hill - Wednesday, October 22 - Clark Family Branch
	Historian and celebrity biographer Andrew Morton - Saturday, October 25 - Clark Family Branch
	Bestselling novelist Mitch Albom - Sunday, October 26 - Clark Family Branch
	Additional ticketed events will soon be announced with former US Poet Laureate Billy Collins and ABC News correspondent and 20/20 co-anchor Deborah Roberts
Ms. Sorth shared both her and Carrie Robb traveled to New York again this year to meet with publishers to discuss the Library’s author events and various author series.  They had 19 meetings with 32 individuals and made pitches to host many significant authors that will be on book tour in 2026. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
October 2025 Author Events
	Elizabeth George, author of “A Slowly Dying Cause: A Lynley Mystery,” Friday, October 3, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Katherine Rundell, author of “The Poisoned King: Impossible Creatures - Book Two,” Monday, October 6, 2025, 6:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Stephanie Garber, “Alchemy of Secrets,” Thursday, October 9,  2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Beth Macy, “Paper Girl: A Memoir of Home and Family in a Fractured America,” Friday, October 10, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Alan Gratz, author of “War Games,” Thursday, October 16, 2025, 6:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Jason Reynolds, author of “Coach,’ Friday, October 17, 2025, 6:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Amy Timberlake, author of “Rock, Paper, Incisors: A Skunk and Badger Story,” Sunday, October 19, 2:00p.m.-3:00p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Joe Hill, author of “King Sorrow,” Wednesday, October 22, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	David Nasaw, author of “The Wounded Generation: Coming Home After World War II,”  Thursday, October 23, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
	Andrew Morton, author of “Winston and the Windsors: How Churchill Shaped a Dynasty,” Saturday, October 25,  7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Mitch Albom, “Twice,” Sunday, October 26, 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
	Gilbert King, “Bone Valley: A True Story of Redemption and Justice in the Heart of Florida,” Wednesday, October 29, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch - Free
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
Chesterfield Branch renderings
Amy Luchen, Lead Architect from Lamar Johnson Collaborative, presented the renderings and floor plan for the new Chesterfield Branch.
2025 Tax Rates
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the recommendation.
The Library Administration recommends Board approval of the attached Resolution which states the above proposed tax rates listed for all subclasses of real estate and personal property are assessed as the 2025 tax rates. If, after validation by the Missouri State Auditor, the tax rate ceiling allowed for any or all subclasses is less than or greater than the approved rate(s) the Director is hereby authorized to set the final rate (s) for the Library as validated by the State of Missouri Auditor. The revenue generated by these rates will allow the District to continue providing excellent service to our patrons and will provide for the repayment of debt from our issuance of Certificates of Participation in April, 2013 and September, 2016.
Dr. Beckwith asked if the senior tax freeze would have an impact on the Library. Ms. Taylor responded.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
2025 Budget Revision
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the recommendation.
The Budget Committee recommends approval of the 2025 revised budget.
Dr. Beckwith had a question regarding the operation expenses. Ms. Taylor responded and agreed to send him the information.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Chesterfield Branch Coffee Operator
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Goshen Coffee Café LLC for a five-year contract to develop and operate a full-service coffee shop in the new Chesterfield Branch and that it authorize the Director and CEO to negotiate, enter into, and execute a contract to that effect.
Dr. Beckwith mentioned that when Natural Bridge was being renovated, someone wanted to put a vendor in at that time and we said we were not interested. He commented that other branches will want this as well. Ms. Sorth responded about Natural Bridge and shared this is our first trial at putting in a coffee shop into a branch. They have discussed with Goshen about the possibility of installing coffee carts in other branches to make coffee available to patrons, but want to give this a try before expanding. Mr. Sanditz asked about the decision between Goshen and Germania. Ms. Sorth and Ms. Reeves responded.
Motion by May Scheve Reardon, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, May Scheve Reardon
Abstain: Lynn Beckwith
Clark Family Custodial Services
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Woodley Building Maintenance to provide Custodial services to the Clark Family Branch for the amount of $92,130 and that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Dr. Beckwith asked what the current total is for all branches with Deep Clean. Ms. Sorth and Ms. Reeves responded.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
ADJOURN FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
All approved by voice vote.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by May Scheve Reardon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, May Scheve Reardon
Meeting ended at 4:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
May Scheve Reardon                                                              Date
Secretary