{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBST6375C584",
  "date": "2025-02-24T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, February 24, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
Johnny Wang, President, was absent due to illness.
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Jennifer McBride, Assistant Director, Communications; Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Desiree Whitlock, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Katie Keeven, Anna Schurk, Emma Figueroa, Ellen Eckert, Lisa Haddox, Adeline Chow, Tracy Fletcher, Stacy Berger, Cheri Remington, Kita Parnell, Andrea Johnson, Kim Ford, Cameron Riesenberger, Ja’Mel McCaine, Amy Luchun, Sarah Wood, Kalin Preston, Brent Trout, Allison Wisniewski, Dany Nenninger, Trista Doyle, Sarah Jones, Ashley Sexton, Spring Galey, Kelli Reeves, Annie Fuller, Deanna Davis, Sarah Brown, Marlee Keeven, Elise Wanting, Chelsea Dunbar, Andrea Carter, Lindsey Piech, Megan Pfifer-Davis, Jennifer Alexander, Mary Arnhart, Nikole Brown, Anne Bradley, Stephanie Nordmann, Alaina Culbertson, Amy Hanaway, Emily Althoff, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the January 27, 2025 Library Board minutes.
Motion by Ted Sanditz, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one to speak before the board.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the report for December 2024.
Maintenance and Operating Fund Financial Statements:
Revenue (page 2)
•           District Taxes - The total tax revenue for 2024 was $63.8 million which is 100% of the total budget of $63.6 million.
•           Other Gifts & Contributions-Restricted - In December, the Library District recognized $1,062,500 as Other Gifts & Contributions-Restricted. This entire amount consists of capital transfers of $1,000,000 from the Clark Family and $62,500 from Object Computing, Inc. as a reimbursement from the Foundation for the Clark Family Branch.
Expense (pages 4 & 5)
•           Grant Fulfillment Expense - In December, the Library District incurred a total of $74,534 in Grant Fulfillment Expense. Of this amount, $47,654 was paid to Epworth Children and Family Services, Inc. for social workers in November and December through a St. Louis County Children’s Services Fund Grant; $15,844 was paid to Dell Marketing, LP to replace a server through a Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) Technology Mini Grant; and $10,194 was recognized for Information Technology Services (ITS) costs through a Missouri Department of Public Safety State and Local Cybersecurity Grant.
•           Building Repair-Parking Lots - In December, the Library District incurred a total of $91,683 in Building Repair-Parking Lots. Of this amount, $90,952 was paid to Asphalt Services, LLC to seal, stripe, and repair parking lots throughout the Library District. These services were approved by the Board at the September 2024 meeting.
•           Capital Improvements - In December, the Library District incurred a total of $116,488 in Capital Improvements. Of this amount, $108,168 was paid to Lamar Johnson Collaborative for November Clark Family services, Sachs design work, and other small project expenses.
There were no questions.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for February.
	Circulation in January totaled 944,958 which was a decrease of 2%; however, the Library was closed for several days due to ice and snow. eMedia circulation was 337,855 which is the highest monthly circulation – ever. The average wait time for an Overdrive title was 36 days in December and is currently 33 days. This number will be monitored frequently to assess the impact of the new eMedia limits. With 216,112 people visiting, Library visits in January increased by 3.5% compared to January of 2024. Over 25,000 patrons visited the Clark Family Branch, with over 4,000 patrons visiting History and Genealogy. The Daniel Boone Branch saw a 13% increase in visitors over January 2024, with 23,522 visitors in January 2025. 3,381 new cardholders were registered in the past twelve months. In the same period last year, there were 2,868 new cardholders. Out of last year’s registrants, 57% have used their library cards over the past 12 months.  The Dashboard includes a map that details the percentage of the population who are Library Cardholders by census tract. The median percentage of market penetration as of February 18th is 25.2%. 770 patrons checked out a Chromebook or WiFi hotspot, which is an increase of 15% over the number of devices checked out in January 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2b, 3d, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Gateway to Reading program was announced on February 11th. A press release was issued to area media outlets. Patrons were informed via email, social media, and on the Library’s website. Several media outlets covered the story including KSDK, FOX2, and St. Louis Magazine, and St. Louis Public Radio is planning a segment in March. We have seen a strong interest from patrons in the Gateway to Reading Program. All of the upcoming Gateway to Reading workshops are full and have waiting lists. As of Friday, 114 of the 390 Gateway to Reading kits have been checked out. An additional 74 kits are either in transit or on the hold shelf waiting to be picked up by a patron. Only five kits are available on the shelves at branches. The first three kits are completely checked out. Those titles include:
		Kit 1 : Decoding basic word structures
		Kit 2 : Consonant Patterns & Complex Blends
		Kit 3 : Silent E Syllables
Ms. Sorth said we continue to talk about this program to various donors and foundations so that we may expand the program. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a)
	As we approach the two year mark of social workers in the Library, we are preparing for continued and expanded funding to support the program for a period of three years. In addition to the proposed extension of time for the project, the proposal will seek an expansion in the number of social workers from six to seven. The number of patrons served each month has tripled since the first full month of services in the summer of 2023 and often exceeds 300 people. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Earlier this month, the St. Louis County Department of Public Health contacted us about distributing new coats and gloves on their behalf. They dropped off 26 coats and 36 pairs of gloves that were given to our social workers to pass along to patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Library will be partnering with Operation Food Search (OFS) to provide summer lunches for children and teens at six branches again this summer. The branches include Florissant Valley, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Prairie Commons, Rock Road and Weber Road. OFS will provide lunches Monday through Thursday. On Fridays, we will offer pizza with the support of the St. Louis County Library Foundation. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	In partnership with Operation Food Search (OFS), the Library will have a food pantry at two additional branches. In addition to Rock Road and Florissant Valley, Mid-County and Lewis & Clark will offer shelf stable food to any patron in need. Unlike the After School Meals and Summer Lunch programs that are restricted to children only due to the State and Federal funding source, patrons of any age can be served by the Library pantries. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	In partnership with the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank, the Library will expand the number of locations that offer period supplies to patrons. Flow kits will be available at Mid-County and Rock Road in addition to the branches that already offer the kits which include Florissant Valley, Grand Glaize, Lewis & Clark, Natural Bridge, Parkview, Weber Road and on the Sweet Reads bookmobile. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Teen Startup Studio is a six-week program for high school students to learn business ownership skills. Participants will develop an entrepreneurial mindset, create and prototype products in the Creative Lab at the Clark Family Branch, and gain marketing experience. The program culminates in a public market event to showcase and sell their creations. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 3b)
	"Are U OK?" is a Mobile Outreach project of The T, a holistic harm reduction program for people at risk for overdose or suffering from injuries related to trauma and bullets. This walk-up service provides free self-care resources including wound, hygiene and self-care kits, as well as resources to prevent and respond to an overdose. Following the success of the “Are U OK” mobile clinic visits to Rock Road on Wednesdays, the Library will expand the partnership to the Natural Bridge Branch every Monday. The mobile clinic will begin making weekly stops at Natural Bridge on March 10th. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	All Library branches will soon have audio equipment from the Wolfner Talking Book and Braille Library which is located in Jefferson City and operated within the Missouri State Library. The equipment that will be available for use inside the branch is intended for vision-impaired patrons to access Wolfner’s extensive audio book collection. Wolfner makes this equipment available for anyone in the state through an application process. Wolfner hopes that by housing this equipment within our branches, more people will be aware of their services. This will allow patrons the ability to try the equipment prior to requesting their own equipment through Wolfner Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The 2025 Black History Celebration Committee is thrilled to present this year’s lineup of stellar authors, artists, and events. The 2025 theme is “From Blacksmiths to Wordsmiths: How the Labor of African Americans Continues to Shape American Culture.” The Black History Celebration Committee members are: Brenda West Ammons, Carla Maxwell, Cindy Fehmel, CJ Hall, Crystal Harris, Nakisha Ford, Jocelyn Moore, and Ja’Mel McCaine. We are so pleased that Ameren is once again the main sponsor for Black History Month. Ameren donated $10,000 in support of the program. Communications created a Black History Month brochure which is available in all twenty branches. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, Increase Access 2a, 2b)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Tap In Center (TIC) has served 1,693 people in the first four years of operation, facilitating 1,675 warrant recalls and 634 in 2024 alone. That total includes 331 felony cases, 108 misdemeanor cases, and 1,236 ordinance violation cases. Attendance increased dramatically in 2024, serving 605 people. From July 2024 to December 2024, the TIC averaged sixteen weekly visitors, compared to an average of seven weekly visitors in 2023. 73% received assistance remotely. Overall, 90% of warrant recall requests were granted. Nearly 80% of clients who had a warrant recalled through the Tap In Center did not return to St. Louis County jail within one year. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	The Library will present an exciting lineup of over 90 programs during March in celebration of Women’s History Month. For the first time ever, all of the programs will be showcased in a full- color brochure, making it easier for patrons to explore the diverse range of offerings. From thought-provoking film discussions and insightful historical lectures about trailblazing figures to high-energy dance parties and fun trivia nights, there will be something for everyone. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1b)
	Starting this month, the Library will host the Partners for Native Landscaping webinar series for the fifth year in a row. Events will take place over the course of six months in 2025. Over 390 people are currently registered for the first two sessions. Presenters and experts will join from the Earthways Center, Missouri Department of Conservation, Shaw Nature Reserve, Missouri Master Naturalists, Forest ReLeaf, Grow Native! and more. Last year, the webinar series had a total attendance of nearly 1,500 participants, with over 2,500 additional views on YouTube. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
	The Library is gearing up for an exciting 314 Day with a lineup of fun, St. Louis-themed programs. Patrons can test their taste buds at the STL Food Showdown at Clark Family Branch, get creative with a Fleur-de-Lis craft at Prairie Commons, and enjoy an inclusive 314 Day celebration at Sachs. Show your city pride with I Love STL! at Cliff Cave, add some flair with Show Me Flair at Eureka Hills, and embark on St. Louis-themed scavenger hunts at a number of other branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d)
	Ms. Sorth reported in 2024, St. Louis County Library was selected as one of 200 public libraries to participate in Thinking Money for Kids. Thinking Money for Kids is an initiative of the American Library Association (ALA) and the FINRA Investor Education Foundation that strives to teach children and their parents, caregivers and educators about financial topics like saving, spending, sharing and budgeting in a meaningful, fun way. The Library received a kit containing a collection of expertly vetted resources to offer financial education programs for children ages 3 to 12. The Library will be offering Thinking Money for Kids programs throughout 2025 at various locations. Programs are centered on fun, financial-themed board games with the addition of other crafts and activities to promote financial literacy. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a)
	The 2024-2025 Winter Reading Challenge ended on January 31. There were 24,146 participants with 19,745 participants completing the challenge which is an 85% completion rate. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b)
	Ms. Sorth reported applications for the Sidney Johnson Internship will open on March 1 and will close on March 31. We are planning to choose four teens to intern this summer. This program is supported by the St. Louis County Library Foundation and the Norman J. Stupp Foundation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 3b, 3c)
	The Library will offer a series of potty training programs for parents with young children throughout 2025. The program is a partnership between the Library and the St. Louis Area Diaper Bank. The Library began offering Potty Training 101 in the fall of 2023. The workshops have been incredibly popular, with over 1,000 families participating. The workshop includes a special potty-themed story time where caregivers will receive information on how to get started with the potty training process. Attendees also receive a potty seat, stepping stool, sticker chart, training pants and potty-themed board book. The program is recommended for caregivers with children ages 2-3. The program is made possible with support from the Dana Brown Charitable Trust. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
Service Stats 2021 to Current:
2025 only:
	Ms. Sorth reported there were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including: 2 Year Old Story Time at Clark Family, Ms. Libby Music Party at Sachs, Lunar NY Celebration at Rock Road, Family Fort Night at Grand Glaize, Gateway to Reading at Grand Glaize and author Steve Inskeep at Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
	“I would like to share a wonderful experience I had at Thornhill Branch. I had a bunch of documents that I had to get notarized. Mr. Kalin Preston helped took the time and helped in getting all my documents notarized. I had to get some additional documents notarized and Gabrielle Marie Kuster helped me get the documents notarized on another dates. Honestly there were a good amount of documents and it indeed was a tedious and time taking task for them to get the documents notarized. Both of the individuals were extremely patient, kind and helpful and I consider this as an "Outstanding" customer service experience. I would be really grateful if you could kindly help in passing on my feedback to Mr. Kalin Preston and Ms. Gabrielle Marie Kuster.”
	See attached letter.
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth shared we were thrilled to finally be able to announce publicly that the St. Louis County Library has been awarded the Jerry Kline Community Impact Prize. This award recognizes the powerful synergy that results when a library works closely with both its local government and its community. To honor our exemplary record, the Library will receive $250,000 from the Gerald M. Kline Family Foundation and was showcased in Library Journal’s February 2025 issue. The St. Louis County Library is the cover story in the February edition of Library Journal. Becky Maue wrote the winning nomination for the Library. The application is extensive and involves answering questions, providing supporting documentation and attaining recommendation letters from the community. St. Louis County Executive Dr. Sam Page, Bob Fox of the Clark-Fox Foundation and Emily Koenig, the Executive Director of the St. Louis County Children’s Services Fund wrote recommendation letters. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
“We are incredibly honored to receive this prestigious award honoring the work of our fantastic employees,” said Kristen Sorth, SLCL Director & CEO. “St. Louis County Library has transformed library service in our region. We have been standing up for our community, removing barriers, and increasing access to library services before and especially during the pandemic, and we have remained standing. Together with our community partners, we provide essential services such as meals, diapers, technology, tutoring, notaries, and social work services at our branches. Libraries move people forward wherever they are in life—and we see the impact of that work every day.”
	Congratulations to the new class of the Staff Development Cohort! The program focuses on understanding the foundations of Library operations, materials, resources, and services. Employees will learn from departments of the system and participate in experiential learning to further their personal and professional development to make greater contributions to the Library and the St. Louis region. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
		KB Benson, Library Associate, Cliff Cave Branch
		Lauren Budde, Library Associate, Weber Road
		Alysia Collins, Library Associate, Daniel Boone Branch
		Bethany Cutkomp, Library Associate, Prairie Commons
		Cheryl Hager, Library Associate, Lewis and Clark Branch
		Matthew Krieg, Library Associate, Oak Bend Branch
		Zoe Maffitt, Library Clerk, Mid-County Branch
		Gregg Minnis, Custodian, The Beck
		Rhiannon Oaks, Library Associate, Bookmobile and Mobile Services Department
		Michael Schawacker, Staff Trainer, Training Department
	Ms. Sorth reported employees and managers are making great progress through the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) training online micro-courses and are on track to finish by March 7. In spring, the second phase of DEIB training will begin with small group sessions facilitated by Hicks- Carter-Hicks. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1c, 1d)
	A team of employees, including Eric Button, Heather Neill, Will LaChance, Ja’Mel McCaine, Rebecca Clarke and Hannah Axt visited with elected officials representing the Library during the Missouri Library Association’s Library Advocacy Day on February 4. Conversations focused on the wide range of library services available at SLCL and also touched on the protection and support of state funding for public libraries. Many of our elected officials already knew a great deal about the Library and they offered to share our information with their constituents in their emails and newsletters. (Plan: Sense of Community 2c, 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	Ms. Sorth reported last month, the Library Board reviewed and approved a recommendation regarding the Library’s yearly investments. Commerce Bank was selected. Commerce followed up later to let us know that they were able to give the Library .05% higher rate on the investment of dollars than they originally quoted us (4.2%). (Plan: Increase Access)
	The Emerson Bookmobile unveiling event took place at Buder Elementary in the Ritenour School District on January 29th. Representatives from Emerson attended as well as Library Administration and Foundation Board Members. Splat the Cat was the costume character that hilariously entertained the students. The Great Southern Bank Bookmobile unveiling took place on February 10th at Parker Road Elementary in the Ferguson-Florissant School District. Representatives from Great Southern Bank attended as well as Library Administration and Foundation Board Members. Curious George and the Man in the Yellow Hat entertained the students. A story time took place at both schools. Each student received bookmarks, stickers and coloring sheets. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 2a)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Ms. Sorth reported new furniture pieces have arrived at several branches. Natural Bridge, Florissant Valley, Rock Road, and Prairie Commons all received new pieces of furniture for their children’s areas; and Rock Road and Prairie Commons also received some new lounge seating for their adult spaces. These pieces have replaced old furniture, which had become heavily stained and damaged. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Library has been experiencing multiple issues with the HVAC units at the Clark Family Branch. These issues started in January and have continued into the month of February. On January 21, the Clark Family Branch closed for the day because one of the units wasn’t working at all and temperatures in a large part of the public area were too cold due to the extreme outside temperatures. Crews were able to get the system back up and running. On the warm day on February 3rd, the air conditioning wouldn’t work. The temperature in the Teen Creative Lab got up to 80 degrees. A Trane representative finally came to take a look at the system and discovered that a control panel for each unit had failed. New panels were ordered and installed. (Plan: Increase Access 1a, 1c)
	The Metropolitan Sewer District (MSD) has started their work at Daniel Boone. This MSD Upper Fishpot East Sanitary Relief project is one which we have discussed in the past during the planning stages. It will replace undersized wastewater sewers as part of a long-term effort by MSD to reduce basement backups and sewer overflows. Kelpe Contracting will be completing this project for MSD. Representatives from SLCL recently met with the contractors on the site to walk through the project. They noted that some of the trees, which they originally thought might need to be removed, should most likely be able to remain in place. Part of the south parking lot will be disturbed during this work. They have noted that they will only remove one section of the parking area at a time. All of the paving and grass will be returned to its previous state after the construction has been completed. (Plan: Increase Access 1b)
Library Foundation and Grants
	Ms. Sorth shared the Foundation Department welcomed their third staff member, Elise Wantling. Elise will serve as the Membership Engagement Coordinator and will manage Friends and special events.
	An annual donor increased their annual gift by $25k for a total of $100k for 2025. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Grants:
		The Library Foundation received a generous donation of $10,000 from Midwest BankCentre for general support. This is the first time the Foundation has received a gift from Midwest BankCentre.
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth reported the Library will host a sold out ticketed event with Bonnie Garmus, author of the global bestseller “Lessons in Chemistry,” on Tuesday, April 1, 7 pm. Clark Family Branch will close at 5:00 pm to accommodate this event.
March 2025 Author Events
	Gayle Forman, author of “After Life,’ Monday, March 3, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Yoni Appelbaum, author of “Stuck: How the Privileged and the Propertied Broke the Engine of American Opportunity,” Tuesday, March 4, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Charlotte McConaghy, author of “Wild Dark Shore,” Thursday, March 6, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Sandra Brown, author of “Blood Moon,” Friday, March 7, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	David Shannon, author of “That’s Not Funny, David!” Saturday, March 8, 2025, 2:00-3:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Nic Stone, author of “Dear Manny,” Monday, March 10, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Elle Cosimano, author of “Finlay Donovan Digs Her Own Grave,” Tuesday, March 11, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Georgia Hunter, author of “One Good Thing,” Wednesday, March 12, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Susan Polgar, author of “Rebel Queen: The Cold War, Misogyny, and the Making of a Chess Grandmaster,” Thursday, March 13, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Cat Bohannon, author of “Eve: How the Female Body Drove 200 Million Years of Human Evolution,” Monday, March 17, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Michael Vorenberg, author of “Lincoln’s Peace: The Struggle to End the American Civil War,” Wednesday, March 19, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Stephen Graham Jones, author of “The Buffalo Hunter,” Thursday, March 20, 2025, 7:00 p.m.- 9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	SOLD OUT/TICKETED EVENT - John Green, “Everything is Tuberculosis: The History and Persistence of Our Deadliest Infection,” Sunday, March 23, 2025, 6:30-7:30 pm, Clark Family Branch
	Kim Fay, author of “Kate and Frida,” Monday, March 24, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Jill Santopolo, author of “The Love We Found,” Wednesday, March 26, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	John Scalzi, author of “When the Moon Hits Your Eye,” Thursday, March 27, 2025, 7:00 p.m.- 9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Mike Matheny, “The Dad Coach: How to Lead Kids to Succeed On and Off the Baseball Field,” Friday, March 28, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Hanif Abdurraqib, author of “There’s Always This Year: On Basketball and Ascension,” Monday, March 31, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
There were no questions.
OLD BUSINESS
None
NEW BUSINESS
SACHS BRANCH PRESENTATION
Amy Luchun and Ellen Eckert from Lamar Johnson Collaborative presented on the new Chesterfield branch. They shared renderings of the exterior and a layout of the interior building design. They expressed they are incorporating components from both the Beckwith and Clark Family Branch.
ACCESSIBILITY TOOL KITS PRESENTATION
Sarah Brown, Manager of Acquisitions & Collection Development, and Marlee Keeven, Special Materials Coordinator, presented the Visual Accessibility Kits and the specialized accessibility items in the lottery.
Ms. Patterson asked how patrons will learn how to use the devices and cost. Sarah Brown responded.
2024 FOUNDATION UPDATE
Ashley Sexton, Manager of Development presented the 2024 year in review, highlighting their achievements, and discussed the exciting new developments planned for 2025, along with their fundraising goal of $2,596,500 for the year.
Mr. Sanditz said he would be interested the number of participants for the fundraising events. Ms. Patterson asked if they could see the growth without the Clark Family money to give a good baseline. Ms. Sexton responded she will get the information sent to them.
TECHNOLOGY (WIDE AREA NETWORK SERVICES)
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS, presented the following.
Library Administration is seeking approval of a new five-year contract for Wide Area Network Services (WAN).  Our current contract with Spectrum Enterprise expires on June 30, 2025.  A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for Wide Area Network Services to solicit competitive bids as required by E-Rate.  Lashly & Baer was involved in this process.  On January 3, the RFP was posted on the Library’s website, the Universal Services Administrative Corporation (USAC) website and advertised in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
Respondents were encouraged to provide various bandwidth speeds for the Library to select from.  The RFP responses were due February 3, 2025.  We received three responses.  They were reviewed by a team of Library employees.
After selecting the specific services required to maintain the current level of functionality, Spectrum and AT&T were very close in price. Spectrum’s proposal was the most responsive and provided detailed network performance specifications.  The Library chose to stay with Spectrum, the “lowest and best” proposal.  The cost associated with changing to a new provider far outweighs the less than $2,000 difference over 60 months.
Library Administration recommends a 60-month contract for Wide Area Network Services from Spectrum Enterprise at the cost of $618,000 which will maintain multi-point functionality, and that the Board authorize the Director & CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect. An anticipated E-Rate refund of 40% would reduce this amount to $370,800 for 60 months. WAN services are included in the 2025 Telecommunications budget.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
PEST CONTROL
Kelli Reeves, Manager of Facilities, presented the following.
On January 30, 2025, Library Administration issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for monthly preventative Pest Control services for all St. Louis County Library facilities including the branches and the Lynn Beckwith, Jr. Administrative Building.  The IFB was emailed directly to fourteen local companies and posted on the Library’s website.  Responses were due February 13, 2025, and two firms responded:
			Company
			Cost
			Rottler Pest Solutions
			   $24,300
			Pointe Pest Control
			   $26,376
Administration and Custodial Services have thoroughly reviewed the bids and agree that Rottler Pest Solutions has provided the lowest and best response to the IFB. When checked, the references for Rottler Pest Solutions indicated good performance.  Pest control is included in the 2025 Library Budget.
Library Administration recommends that the Library Board select Rottler Pest Solutions to provide Pest Control at all Library locations for an annual cost of $24,300, and that it authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a three-year contract to that effect.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
RESOLUTION: NAMING RIGHTS AND GIFT AGREEMENT (JAFFE)
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following.
As the Library was completing each project during Your Library Renewed (YLR), we were also significantly aware of the building limitations for several of the branches that were renovated instead of replaced.  Two branches were identified as needing replacement sooner rather than later.  The Samuel C. Sachs Branch and the Natural Bridge Branch were first on that list due to ongoing and significant maintenance issues resulting from the original branch design, as well as the physical building’s inability to serve the current and future needs of the public within their existing square footage, layout, parking lots, and exterior design.
Due to the significant and current development of the area surrounding the Sachs Branch, which includes thousands of homes, condominiums, townhomes, and retail, combined with an ongoing commitment from the City of Chesterfield to deliver on their comprehensive plan to reimagine the City with additional parks, trails and community spaces, we selected the Sachs Branch as the first new project to be completed post-YLR.  We have had many discussions with the City of Chesterfield as the Branch sits exactly in the middle of their plans, both in its actual location and its function with their focus on community.  In 2023, we began discussions about design after the Board selected Lamar Johnson Collaborative as the architectural firm for the new branch in Chesterfield.
At the same time we were opening the Clark Family, an amazing couple, Guy and Judy Jaffe, decided that they wanted to make a gift to the Library in celebration of the work the Library does for the community.  We are thrilled to announce that Guy and Judy Jaffe have made a $1 million donation to the St. Louis County Library and St. Louis County Library Foundation to be used toward the new Library branch in Chesterfield.  We believe it is fitting and well-deserved for the branch to be named in honor of Guy and Judy Jaffe.
Guy and Judy Jaffe are both entrepreneurs, business owners, community volunteers and supporters of many non-profit organizations. They started a national company in 1996, American Dental Sales, which is the largest association of top dental practice brokers, appraisers, and consultants in the United States.  Today, American Dental Sales has twenty-five partner companies that operate throughout the country.  Guy and Judy also started a Family Foundation located within the St. Louis Community Foundation. Their Foundation offers financial support to organizations providing services with the impact areas of entrepreneurship and economic development, education and cultural arts.
The Library Board of Trustees, per its naming policy which is attached, makes all final decisions on naming rights for Library buildings, rooms or features. Typically, the Library does not name any of its facilities for any person, living or deceased.  However, the attached Resolution states that naming the new branch in Chesterfield the “Guy and Judy Jaffe Family Branch” is consistent with the mission of the Library and its reputation as a public entity. The Resolution waives and suspends the Naming Policy in order to name the branch for a living person.  The building will be named the “Guy and Judy Jaffe Family Branch.” The gift agreement is also attached and has been signed by the St. Louis County Library Foundation Board President, Lisa Hanly, following approval of the gift by the St. Louis County Library Foundation Board in December, 2024.  The resolution also includes approval of the gift agreement.
The Library Administration enthusiastically recommends the approval of the attached resolution entitled: Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the St. Louis County Library District naming the new library branch to be built in Chesterfield, Missouri the “Guy and Judy Jaffe Family Branch” and approving the gift agreement related thereto.
Ms. Patterson asked if we could have some standardization to the naming rights. Ms. Sorth responded.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Ted Sanditz.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
COOPERATION AGREEMENT
Kristen Sorth, Director and CEO, presented the following.
The Library identified several of the branch renovations during Your Library Renewed (YLR) as possible future new buildings due to ongoing and significant maintenance issues resulting from the original branch design, combined with the physical building’s inability to serve the current and future needs of the public within their existing square footage, layout, parking lot, and exterior design.  The Samuel C. Sachs Branch was one of the branches identified as a future replacement.  The branch has experienced numerous maintenance issues including major roof leaks, HVAC issues, and significant flooding due to frozen pipes on several occasions all resulting from original design choices made prior to the branch opening in 2002.  In addition, the branch design makes it difficult and cost prohibitive to expand the branch’s footprint or add a second story.
In early 2022, I began discussing our thoughts about a new branch with the City of Chesterfield and those discussion have continued over the last several years as the City of Chesterfield has completed significant public engagement to inform the development and current implementation of the City’s comprehensive plan. The Branch sits exactly in the middle of their plans, both in its physical location and its function with the City’s intentional focus on community.  As the implementation of the comprehensive plan commences, there is significant development of the area immediately surrounding the Sachs Branch, which includes the influx of thousands of homes, condominiums, townhomes, and retail, combined with an ongoing commitment from the City of Chesterfield to deliver on their plan to reimagine the City with additional parks, trails and community spaces.
On December 14, 2022, the Chesterfield City Council adopted Ordinance No. 3217, which approved the “Chesterfield Regional Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Plan and Project” for a portion of the City designated and approved for redevelopment and they adopted tax increment financing for the area.  The replacement of the Library’s Chesterfield Branch was included in the “Plan and Project.”  The City and the District agree that the complete replacement expansion of the Chesterfield Branch will benefit the community. Accordingly, the Library and the City have agreed that the City will allocate a portion of the tax increment financing revenues to be generated within the Redevelopment Area toward the replacement of the Chesterfield Branch.  The attached Cooperation Agreement outlines the process by which the Library will be reimbursed by the City of Chesterfield for up to $6 million for the replacement of the Chesterfield Branch.   Following approval by the Board of Trustees, the Cooperation Agreement will go before the Chesterfield City Council for approval.  I worked with the City and their attorneys, as well as the Library’s attorneys, Mark Grimm from Gilmore Bell and Lisa Stump from Lashly & Baer on this agreement.
The Library Administration recommends the approval of the attached resolution entitled: A Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the St. Louis County Library District authorizing and approving a Cooperation Agreement with the City of Chesterfield, Missouri.
Dr. Beckwith asked the estimated cost of the building. Ms. Sorth responded close to 10 million with 6 million coming from the City of Chesterfield and 1 million gift from the Jaffe family.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
ADJOURNMENT
Dr. Lynn Beckwith motioned to adjourn meeting, seconded by Ted Sanditz. All approved.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Meeting adjourned at 5:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
Joan Barry                                                                              Date
Secretary