{
  "name": "Regular Meeting",
  "description": "",
  "unique": "DBSSHM72C704",
  "date": "2025-01-27T00:00:00Z"
}

---

ST. LOUIS COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT
MEETING OF THE BOARD
CLARK FAMILY BRANCH
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2025
The monthly meeting of the Board of the St. Louis County Library District was held at Clark Family Branch, 1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131 on Monday, January 27, 2025 at 3:30 p.m. The agenda had been posted in all branches of the Library District at least 24 hours before the meeting.
ATTENDANCE:
Library Board Members:
Johnny Wang, President
Deborah Patterson, Vice President
Joan Barry, Secretary
Ted Sanditz, Treasurer
Dr. Lynn Beckwith, Member
ADMINISTRATORS AND GUESTS ATTENDING:
Kristen Sorth, Library Director & CEO; Eric Button, Deputy Director; Laura Taylor, CFO; Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, ITS; Jennifer Gibson, Assistant Director, Strategic Initiatives, Attorney Lisa Stump, Lashly Baer; and Desiree Whitlock, St. Louis County.
OTHERS ATTENDING:
Jennifer Alexander, Trista Doyle, Melissa Hupp, Nik Brown, Kelli Reeves, Donna Spaulding, Laura Polak, Andrew Freshwater, Melissa Bauer, Mary Arnhart, Carrie Robb, Sarah Brown, Will LaChance, Megan Phifer-Davis, Hannah Axt, Ja’Mel McCaine, Nicole Walsh, Terence McCoy, Nora Marino, Chris Goodman, Carla Maxwell, Nicole Clawson, Ashley Sexton, Dorothy Zoptock, John Cawly, Martha Gaither, Mary Dale-Banister, Stanley Brasch, Cameron Riesenberger, Darien Jones, Miriam Whatley, Andrea Carter, Stephanie Nordmann, Alaina Culbertson, Amy Hanaway, Emily Althoff, and Becky Maue.
MINUTES
The Library Board approved the December 16, 2024 Library Board minutes.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Mary Dale-Bannister, President of the Greater St. Louis Knitters Guild, spoke regarding the Clark Family Branch not having a room available that could accommodate their organization.
Stanley Brasch, a resident, would like us to consider providing sick time leave to part-time employees.
DIRECTOR AND CEO'S REPORT
Ms. Sorth delivered the attached Dashboard report for Year-End 2024 which includes information on the Library’s annual 2024 statistics.
	2024 Review:
		The Library circulated 11,084,505 items in 2024. This total is 1% higher than the total circulation in 2023. The highest circulating branch of 2024 was the Daniel Boone Branch, with circulation totaling almost 1,000,000.  Since opening to the public on July 9th, the Clark Family Branch circulated over 320,000 items. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
		The percentage of digital to print circulation has changed significantly since 2019. In 2019, 13% of Library circulation was attributed to digital checkouts. In 2024, Library patrons circulated 3,614,110 digital items, which accounted for 33% of total circulation. Print materials remain popular, particularly with children. Print material for children and teens made up 29% of the Library’s total circulation. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b)
		Ms. Sorth said patrons continue to use self-service options when checking out materials. Fifty-four percent of checkouts are completed using the Express Check terminals or the self-check option on the mobile app. When checking out eMedia, the majority of patrons checked out materials directly from the Library’s online catalog with OverDrive. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Increase Access 1d)
		The Library added 197,251 items in 2024 and 19,900 unique titles were cataloged. New formats added to the collection in 2024 included GoPro cameras, graphing calculators, and Memory Kits. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d, Sense of Community 3)
		Ms. Sorth reported there was a small decrease in visits in 2024. The decrease can be attributed to a new and more accurate counting system. A total of 3,209,765 patrons visited the Library in 2024. October was a standout month due to early voting. The busiest day in 2024 was Election Day on November 5th with 35,338 patrons visiting the Library. On August 6th, 33,546 patrons visited the Library coinciding with primary election voting. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
		The uptick in visitors for voting aligned with an increase in new cardholder registrations. The Library registered 75,117 new cardholders in 2024, a 21% increase compared to 2023. A significant increase in registrations was observed around the time of the Clark Family Branch opening in July and the beginning of early voting in October. The Clark Family Branch alone registered nearly 5,000 patrons between July 9th and the end of 2024. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Increase Access 1c, 2c)
		Public PC sessions decreased by just 1% in 2024 compared to 2023 with 514,412 patrons using a Library PC. Wi-Fi sessions jumped 15%, totaling 517,295 sessions. Hotspots and Chromebooks remained popular. The Library has 449 Wifi Hotspots, 97 Hotspot and Chromebook Kits, and 37 standalone Chromebooks. These circulated 3,025 times. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 3c)
		Ms. Sorth reported a total of 391,775 patrons attended 28,726 program sessions in 2024. This included over 30,000 patrons attending 121 author events. Author event attendance increased by 64% in 2024.  The Library hosted 2,569 literacy programs, reaching 78,067 early readers. There were 485 programs for seniors, attended by 4,837 participants. Additionally, 15,339 Library patrons used the Book a Trainer / Librarian / Genealogist service. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, 2b, 3a, 3d, Sense of Community 3c)
		Library patrons placed 2,136,949 holds. Library staff checked in 6,676,325 items and nearly 800,000 items were sorted by the Automated Materials Handler at the Beckwith Administrative Building. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
		The top circulating item of the year was Kristin Hannah’s The Women, with over 4,000 checkouts. The most popular eBook was First Lie Wins by Ashley Elston with over 3,500 checkouts. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a)
		In 2024, Customer Connect answered 102,081 calls. 2024 marks the first year since prior to the pandemic that total calls exceeded 100,000. The annual call count was up almost 6% and the talk time was up 12% over 2023. (Plan: Increase Access 1)
	Ms. Sorth shared the 2025 Black History Celebration Committee is thrilled to present this year’s lineup of stellar authors, artists, and events. The 2025 theme is “From Blacksmiths to Wordsmiths: How the Labor of African Americans Continues to Shape American Culture.” The Black History Celebration Committee members are: Brenda West Ammons, Carla Maxwell, Cindy Fehmel, CJ Hall, Crystal Harris, Nakisha Ford, Jocelyn Moore, and Ja’Mel McCaine. She said we are so pleased that Ameren is once again the main sponsor for Black History Month. Ameren donated $10,000 in support of the program. Communications created a Black History Month brochure which will be available in all twenty branches. Additional promotions include eBlasts, social media posts, a dedicated webpage, a half page ad in the MLK insert of the St. Louis American, weekly GO! ads in the Friday Post-Dispatch, and ads on St. Louis Public Radio. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, Increase Access 2a, 2b)
		Ms. Sorth reported the kick-off event occurred on January 14th with author Jewell Parker Rhodes at the Clark Family Branch. She discussed her new book “Will’s Race for Home” at length and shared how her family dynamics influenced her as a writer. Additionally, she took questions from the audience and posed for pictures afterwards. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Lee Hawkins, author of “I am Nobody’s Slave: How Uncovering my Family’s History Set Me Free,” spoke at the Clark Family Branch on Thursday, January 23rd.  Gwen Moore of the Missouri History Museum served as the moderator. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		The “WordUp” Poetry and Comedy Showcase on Saturday, February 1st will be presented by Dacia Polk, owner of St. Louis WordUp Entertainment. The showcase will focus on local poets and comedians and the event will be held at the Florissant Valley Branch at 1:00 p.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Charmaine Wilkerson, author of the book “Black Cake” that served as the basis for the hit series on Hulu, will speak about her newest book, “Good Dirt.” She will be at the Clark Family Branch on Wednesday, February 5th at 7:00 p.m. This event will be moderated by Shawntelle Madison. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Ms. Sorth said this year’s Frankie Freeman Inspirational Lecture Keynote Speaker is author Victoria Christopher Murray. This event will be held on Thursday, February 6th at 7:00 p.m. and will focus on her newest book, “Harlem Rhapsody.” Ron Austin, MFA, an Assistant Professor from St. Louis University, will moderate this event. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
			This year’s Frankie Freeman Inspirational Awardee is Tamia Coleman-Hawkins. Tamia is the owner/founder of “Mia’s Treats Delight,” a bakery she started when she was only eight years old. A portion of her proceeds is donated to combat homelessness. A private reception for Chef Mia will precede the author event. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		The committee has partnered with the City of Clayton to present a program by the Black Rep. “Jabari Dreams of Freedom” will be performed by the Black Rep on Monday, February 10th at 6:00 p.m. at the Mid-County Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		“What She Said” will be performed by the Black Rep on Wednesday, February 12that 6:00 p.m. at the Lewis and Clark Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Acclaimed author Walter Mosley will be at the Clark Family Branch on Thursday, February 13th at 7:00 p.m. to discuss his newest work “Been Wrong So Long It Feels Right: A King Oliver Novel.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		One of the Committee’s signature music events, Set the Night to Music, will be held on Friday, February 14th, 7:00 p.m., at the Florissant Valley Branch. There will be a perfect date night setting for the event, with space to dance, complete with a chocolate fountain to dip fruit in while attendees listen to The Remedy. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Author Judith Giesberg will discuss her book “Last Seen: The Enduring Search by Formerly Enslaved People to Find Their Lost Families.” This event will be held on Tuesday, February 18th at 7:00 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch. The moderator will be Cicely Hunter, Missouri Historical Society Public Historian of the African American History Initiative. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Earnest Hart, Jr., a local martial artist professional, will give a presentation about his life and work as an actor and self-defense and awareness guru. This event will take place on Wednesday, February 19th at 6:00 p.m. in the Creative Lab at the Clark Family Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Sweet Success: A Panel Discussion with Black Entrepreneurs in the Dessert Industry will take place on Wednesday, February 19, 6:00 p.m. at the Florissant Valley Branch. Local Black entrepreneurs will share their unique opportunities and challenges in the dessert industry. Panelists include Amon Aziz of Pharoh's Donuts, Rachel Burns of Bold Spoon Creamery, Mike Evans of Alibi Cookies, and Katina Mims of Sweet Fixx. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Ms. Sorth shared the Chairman and CEO of Midwest BankCentre-St. Louis, Orv Kimbrough, will discuss his book “Twice over a Man: A Fierce Memoir of an Orphan Boy Who Doggedly Determined a Finer Life” on Thursday, February 20th at 7:00 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		Author Jennifer Jones will discuss her book, “Becoming Spectacular: The Rhythm of Resilience from the First African American Rockette” on Friday, February 21st at 7:00 p.m. at the Clark Family Branch. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
		The Gift of Gospel will be held at the Clark Family Branch this year to accommodate the growing number of attendees. There will be performances by The Simmons Sisters, Mime Dancer Quincey Fielding III, The Duncan’s and more. This event will be on Saturday, February 22nd at 1:00 p.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b)
	Ms. Sorth said starting this month, Rock Road will host the BRIC Mobile Outreach Vehicle termed the “Are U OK?” care unit weekly on Wednesdays from 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. The first visit occurred on Wednesday, January 15th with eleven patrons visiting. On January 23, eighteen patrons were seen and assisted. "Are U OK?" is a Mobile Outreach project of The T, a holistic harm reduction program for people at risk for overdose or suffering from injuries related to trauma and bullets. This walk-up service provides free self-care resources including wound, hygiene and self-care kits, as well as resources to prevent and respond to an overdose. Appointments are not required. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth reported the Library received a large number of positive reactions to the informational email sent to 78,000 Overdrive and Hoopla users earlier this month about the changes to eMedia limits. She also did an interview on St. Louis on the Air on January 23rd to talk about the changes. The feedback was overwhelmingly positive including comments such as:
		“This seems very fair.  Thank you for the good communication.”
		“Totally understandable! I only recently learned how digital checkouts worked and was shocked. Guess I was naive to think it would be cheaper than physical books! Thank you all for all you do. The libraries are so important.”
		“Thank You for coming up with such a great solution to a very pressing issue. You do such a good job, I don't mind paying your portion on my personal property bill. It is truly a bargain!” (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 3b, Increase Access 2c)
	The Novel Creations series was an 8-week accelerator where local artisans explored marketing and merchandising. The inaugural program culminated in a Holiday Pop Up Market at the Clark Family Branch on December 14th. The 58 vendors who completed the program successfully demonstrated their enhanced skills with an average of twelve sales of more than two items each, generating a median revenue of $310 for the 3-hour market. Approximately 1,400 attendees were pleasantly surprised that the "event felt just like a real marketplace—full of life and energy," and are looking forward to making the market an annual tradition. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c, 3d)
	Empowering Encore Entrepreneurs is an 8-week program designed to equip entrepreneurs and small business owners aged 55+ with the skills and knowledge needed for their new business to succeed. This program will run every Tuesday from April 1 to May 20, from 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m., at the Clark Family Branch. Applications will be available on the Library’s website from February 1 through February 28. This program is sponsored by the Clark Family. (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3c, 3d, Sense of Community 1b, 3a)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Foundation received a $100,000 gift from the Winnifred Lesandrini Estate for the Blind for a project to benefit patrons with visual impairments.  In response, the Special Materials Team has been working on creating Accessibility Kits that will offer tools for patrons with visual impairments.  In January all branches received LED magnifiers that can be borrowed for use in the branches.  The same magnifiers are included in the Accessibility Kits that will be made available for a 21-day checkout beginning sometime in March.  In addition to the magnifiers and the Accessibility Kits, the funds from the gift will provide for three powerful assistive technology tools for individuals with low-vision or those who are blind.  The devices are 1) OrCam MyEye 3 Pro, 2) Humanware Explore 12, and 3) LyriQ Assistive Text-to-Speech Reader.  These devices will be made available to qualifying patrons in St. Louis County to borrow for a period of three months.  This timeframe allows patrons to test the devices to see if they might wish to acquire one permanently for themselves.  An application for these devices will be posted in February and initial selections will be made through a lottery in March.  All of the equipment acquired through the gift from the Winnifred Lesandrini Estate for the Blind was selected with guidance from experts at the Missouri Assistive Technology Department.
	 (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, Sense of Community 1b, 3b, Increase Access 1)
	The Tap In Center will soon expand into a new local jurisdiction - the City of St. Louis Circuit Court. The Library is partnering with the City of St. Louis Circuit Attorney’s Office, Missouri Public Defender’s Office, and the 22nd Circuit Court Pretrial Office to assist people with misdemeanor and low-level felony charges who have a warrant due to missing court in the City of St. Louis Circuit Court. Launching February 5, 2025, the Tap In Center - City of St. Louis program will be held every Wednesday from 5:30-7:30 p.m. at the Central Branch of the St. Louis Public Library. This new site will allow the Tap In Center program to better serve justice-involved individuals across the region. It also marks the fourth TIC site nationwide, following Kansas City, MO and Franklin County, OH. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Ms. Sorth reported in 2024, Excel Adult High School held its first graduation ceremony at the Post Event Space which fueled increased interest in the program. Five patrons, having observed the profound effect of the program at the graduation ceremony, enrolled as new students. We experienced a 39% increase in scholarship interviews and 16 patrons completed the program last year. In fact, three patrons have already completed the program in 2025, bringing our total number of graduates to 140. Washington University’s Continuing Education program has again offered healthcare education scholarships to our graduates and we are excited that Rung for Women is also a new resource for our female graduates. Excel ended the year on a high note not only because of the external resources available to our students but also due to the wonderful Library employees that continue to promote the program and support our students on their journey. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3c)
	Presented by St. Louis University (SLU), the prestigious St. Louis Literary Award has honored writers for over 50 years. This year’s award winner is Colson Whitehead, a Pulitzer-winning novelist known for blending historical themes and social commentary. The Library is offering a Virtual Program: If You Love Colson Whitehead on Tuesday, February 18th and an Inspired by Colson Whitehead collection of creative pieces submitted by patrons and students at SLU for inclusion in the Library’s eMedia collection on Biblioboard. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 3d)
	Ms. Sorth said the Born to Read program invites families with newborns to start their child’s path to reading.
She reported Eric Button has been working with the Youth Services Department to reimagine the program to increase its reach and impact. In 2025, instead of receiving a Born to Read Bag at participating hospitals, new parents will receive a bookmark that can be brought to any St. Louis County Library location for a free board book and a voucher for two free tickets to a select St. Louis Cardinals game. Born to Read will expand to St. Louis County Department of Public Health WIC offices in 2025. Families will receive a bag at their postpartum appointment, 6-month visit and 1-year visit. Each bag will have early literacy materials and other helpful items for each developmental stage. All branches will also host Born to Read playdates, held once per quarter for ages 6-24 months. These programs feature fun, hands-on activities that build literacy skills and encourage learning through play. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2a, 3a, Increase Access 2c)
	On Saturday February 1, all branches will be celebrating Take Your Child to the Library Day by hosting various activities such as Scavenger Hunts, and a couple branches will even have a visit from Penelope Rex, the star of the popular book “We Don’t Eat Our Classmates” by Ryan T. Higgins. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, 3d, Increase Access 1c)
	The Library hosted a table at Winter Warm Up last weekend giving out Winter Warm Up 2025 and make-your-own buttons and providing brochures on Library programs and resources. (Plan: Sense of Community 2b, 2c, 2d)
Service Stats 2021 to Current:
2025 only:
	There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
	Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last month including authors Billy Collins, Jewell Parker Rhodes and Brad Meltzer. Programs include the Are U Ok? Mobile outreach unit, Holiday Pop-up Market, Winter's Day Ball at Meramec Valley Branch and Songs of the Solstice at Clark Family Branch.  Also, teens descended on the Clark Family Branch during finals in December. It was “The” Place to be and be seen. We had to open up the Post Event Space to provide more spaces for studying.  (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d; Sense of Community 1b, 3b, 3c)
Impact Stories
Ms. Sorth shared the following impact stories:
	I started my personal oral history in the oral history lab. It was simple to use and it provided a high quality recording. This is incredible. I also scanned, with the overhead scanner, large books and family photos that were in the plastic albums that can destroy your photos if you pull them out. There was glare from the plastic and the Library staff person showed me that the scanner had a feature to eliminate the glare. It worked perfectly. I also recorded old DVDs of family events. This was also simple to use and great to have the recordings on a flash drive. The memory lab is a phenomenal free resource to the community and my hat is off to whoever had the idea for the lab and to the persons or entity that provided the funding.  The Genealogy lab staff are knowledgeable and very helpful. Using the Memory lab has been an excellent experience. Thank you to the St. Louis County Library. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b, 3d)
	Regarding the social workers: I attended an outreach event at the STLCC-FV Child Development Center and met two parents who also happened to be social workers for Ferg-Flor. They said you came to their school to introduce yourself and the Library's services and that ever since they've been referring families to the Book-a-Social-Worker form on a regular basis. They told me that they've had really positive feedback from the families who've worked with you and that it's been such a relief for them to be able to send folks your way since there are certain things you all can do faster/more efficiently than they can. (Plan: Sense of Community 1b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Increase Access 1c)
	I checked in with Nicole Snyder, our Transition Center contact, about the SkillMill roll out and I wanted to share her response with you: "The information sessions went great! We have 16 residents signed up for SkillMill and we are looking to add a few more once their Library cards come in. It’s very exciting! We’ve started classes and have had several residents already start earning certifications and they seem to be enjoying the program. We are so grateful TCSTL was able to be afforded this partnership with the County Library for an opportunity like this for our residents! Thank you!"  We have also made 68 Library cards for TCSTL residents so far. Thank you all for your help and support in getting this partnership started! (Plan: Promote Literacy 2d, 3a, 3b, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c)
	Patron commented on how useful the bookable small business rooms have been for his business. He stated that he just moved here and his family is in a temporary living situation without a home office, and knowing that the rooms are there so that he can take conference calls and lead meetings has been a blessing. He also enjoys working in the rest of the library, but the being able to reserve a space easily is a big draw. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	LaWanda Brewer, who teaches hearing impaired students in the Francis-Howell school district and has helped coordinate the annual school field trip to the St. Louis Storytelling Festival performance for deaf students in Missouri and Illinois told me about the impact the event had on a student in 2024. The student, who was middle school age, wasn't wearing his hearing aid at the beginning of the event and was sitting by himself, not really engaging with anyone. She asked where his hearing aid was, and he brought it out of his pocket. She asked if he was embarrassed to wear it, and he admitted he was, but she pointed out that all the students there, both younger and older than him, were wearing theirs. Throughout the rest of the day, he wore his hearing aid and was more engaged and even went up to meet Justin Perez, the storyteller. LaWanda felt that it was incredibly important that he saw kids of all ages and who were also deaf and diverse like him and could interact with them. Many of the kids and teachers who saw LaWanda talk to him asked her how she was able to get him to wear his hearing aid. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 3b, Increase Access 1c)
Library Administrative Updates
	Ms. Sorth reported two of the old bookmobile trailers have been sold through an auction facilitated by GRS Auctions. This is the same company that managed the sale of surplus items from the Headquarters Branch. The Library and sponsor branding on the trailers was removed prior to their sale. The sale will net the Library $14,437.50.  In addition to parting with the trailers, the Library will also be able to return two of the Ford F-450 trucks that were used to pull the trailers. These will reduce the cost of the Enterprise leasing contract for vehicles. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	The Library’s Work Comp Experience Rating is .96. A numerical value is used by insurance companies to assess a company’s workers’ compensation risk based on their past claims history which ultimately impacts the premium costs. A rating of below 1.0 indicates a better than average safety record. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth announced the Missouri Library Association’s Library Advocacy Day will take place on February 4th in Jefferson City. She said Eric Button will lead a group of managers to visit with State Representatives and Senators and to advocate for St. Louis County Library and libraries throughout the State. (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	The Emerson Bookmobile launch is scheduled for January 29th at 10:00 a.m. at Buder Elementary in the Ritenour School District. The rescheduled launch event for the Great Southern Bookmobile has been tentatively scheduled for February 10th at Parker Road Elementary in the Ferguson-Florissant School District. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 2a, Sense of Community 2a)
	Online micro-courses for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) training launched on January 7th for all Library employees. These short, self-paced courses focus on working well with others, unconscious bias, and better understanding our differences and strengths. After the courses are completed by March 7, the next phase of DEIB training will continue with group training sessions in-person and via webinar, beginning with inclusive leadership training for managers and assistant managers. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, Increase Access 1c)
	Ms. Sorth said we were pleased to welcome the individuals participating in Greater St. Louis Inc.'s Fellows Experience leadership program to the Clark Family Branch on January 16, 2025. The Fellows Experience is designed to address the unique interests and challenges faced by professionals of color as they advance their careers, helping them overcome systemic barriers and expand their leadership capacity. She said participants embark on a transformative journey, focusing on professional development, relationship building, and civic engagement. Some of the large organizations in STL that support Greater St. Louis Inc., such as Centene, Ameren, Spire, Purina, Caleres, Enterprise etc. send professionals into the program. Eric Button, Carrie Robb, Ashley Sexton and Board Member Deborah Patterson were able to share information about Library programs and services. Many participants stayed after for a tour. We received the following thank you from the leader of the program, Trezette Dixon:
We want to take a moment to say THANK YOU!!  You assisted us in creating an amazing day full of excitement for leadership development and learning about the impact of the SLCL!  Thank you for being such gracious hosts to the Greater St. Louis, Inc. Fellows Experience for our January session.   Our program is designed to Educate, Empower and Elevate.  You helped us accomplish all three!  The leaders/Fellows who participate in the leadership program from anchor organizations throughout the region learned so much and were definitely “surprised” by the information and resources shared in your presentation and on the tour. You have more ambassadors for SLCL! Please extend our thanks to every staff and team member that helped make the day a tremendous success! (Plan: Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2c)
	Communications has collected several interesting marketing stats from 2024. The Library:
		Had over 189 media mentions
		Sent over 54 million emails with an average open rate of 35%
		Fulfilled over 2,100 branch and departmental requests for promotional materials.
		Created thousands of print materials to market Library programs, services and events.
		Took over 10,000 photos at Library programs and added to Flickr.
		Launched a weekly KTRS Book Club on 550AM featuring interviews with authors appearing at SLCL, as well as segments about Library news and programs, and weekly commercials.
	Placed 52 GO! ads in the Friday edition of the St. Louis Post Dispatch, promoting a wide variety of Library programs, events and services.
	Placed 12 A&E ads promoting the author series.
	Provided 288 spots on St. Louis Public Radio promoting the authors series, STL Summer Adventure, Winter Reading Club, Black History Month, Storytelling Festival, Teen Book Festival.
	Provided radio spots on 104.1 by Princess Stormm promoting a wide variety of Library programs and services.
	Completed two transit campaigns promoting ePop Up Library and the Storytelling Festival with placements on area bus and Metrolink shelters, and interior bus/Metrolink cards. (Plan: Increase Access 2a, 2b, 2c)
Social Media Statistics:  Total number of posts on our social media platforms:
	Facebook: 1,264
	Instagram: 2,399
	Twitter: 1,032
	YouTube: 157
	Tiktok: 50 (Plan: Increase Access 2c, 2d)
Total followers as of 12/9/24
	Facebook: 36,337
	Instagram: 12,475
	Twitter: 13,013
	YouTube: 4,760
	Tiktok: 1,073 (Plan: Increase Access 2c, 2d)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
	Ms. Sorth said all branches were closed January 5 – 7 due to the winter storm that came through the area. The storm started out with a layer of ice and then changed over to sleet and snow. In the end, there was up to ten inches of snow at some of our branches. BSR, our snow removal contractor, started preparing the parking lots as the storm approached, but they were unable to keep up with the impact of such a large amount of snow on top of the ice. We were finally able to open the majority of our branches on January 8; however, Natural Bridge Branch, Daniel Boone Branch, Eureka Hills Branch, Cliff Cave Branch and Thornhill Branch remained closed through part of the day as the snow removal crews continued to clear their parking lots. Another snowstorm came through the area on Friday, January 10th. All branches were closed that day as well. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
	On January 20th, one of the two HVAC units which controls the temperatures for the Clark Family Branch stopped producing warm air for the building. The building remained closed on January 21st but opened to the public the next day. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Library Foundation and Grants
	Ms. Sorth reported the annual End of Year appeal raised $93,540! This is the largest appeal response – ever.  The appeal also generated a $20,000 gift from a single donor. The goal was set at $30,000 and the appeal exceeded that by 312%. The appeal generated 262 doors with an average gift of $357.  The Foundation had 289 new donors in 2024.  (Plan: Increase Access 2b, 2c)
	Ashley Sexton, the Manager of Development, has been invited to join the Washington University, Business Management for Nonprofit Leaders Program as part of their 11th cohort. This program includes business leaders from nonprofit organizations from across the St. Louis region. The program will take place over the next year. Ashley’s participation is sponsored by Citi who contacted me to ask if someone from the Library would like to participate. (Plan: Sense of Community 1d)
	Grants:
		The Library Foundation received a generous sponsorship of $10,000 from Ameren to support Black History Month programming next month.
		The Library Foundation received $15,000 from BJC for produce boxes.
		The Library Foundation received a $10,000 grant from the Herbert A. and Adrian W. Woods Foundation to support diaper distributions in 2025.
		The Library Foundation received a $5,500 grant from the Saigh Foundation to support Gateway to Reading in 2025.
		The Library received a $44,000 grant from the Library Services and Technology Act Summer Library Program to support this year’s STL Summer Adventure with SLPL.
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth announced the Library will host nine author events in celebration of Black History Month. Visiting authors include suspense fiction great Walter Mosley, St. Louis business and non-profit leader Orvin Kimbrough, renowned dancer and the first African American Rockette Jennifer Jones, and bestselling novelists Charmaine Wilkerson and Victoria Christopher Murray. Black History Month programming also includes two authors speaking on subjects around African American family history research: Lee Hawkins, author of “I Am Nobody’s Slave: How Uncovering My Family’s History Set Me Free” and historian Judith Giesberg, author of “Last Seen: The Enduring Search by Formerly Enslaved People to Find Their Lost Families.” Both of these events are presented in partnership with the Library’s Emerson History and Genealogy Center and the Missouri Historical Society.
The Library has two sold out (800 capacity) ticketed events in February and March: Today Show co-host Savannah Guthrie (February 22) and #1 bestselling novelist John Green (March 23). Both events are on the weekend with their start time at 6:00 p.m. The Clark Family Branch will close at 4:00 p.m. on February 22, 2025 and March 23, 2025 to allow sufficient time to set up for these events before the doors open to the public at 5:00 p.m.
February 2025 Author Events
	Charmaine Wilkerson, author of “Good Dirt,” Wednesday, February 5, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Victoria Christopher Murray, author of “Harlem Rhapsody,” Thursday, February 6, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Pam Jenoff, author of “Last Twilight in Paris,” Friday, February 7, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Christina Clancy, author of “The Snowbirds,” Monday, February 10, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Neil Shubin, author of “Ends of the Earth: Journeys to the Polar Regions In Search of Life, the Cosmos, and Our Future,” Tuesday, February 11, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Steve Inskeep, author of “Differ We Must: How Lincoln Succeeded in a Divided America,” Wednesday, February 12, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Walter Mosley, author of “Been Wrong So Long It Feels Right: A King Oliver Novel,” Thursday, February 13, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Judith Giesberg, author of “Last Seen: The Enduring Search by Formerly Enslaved People to Find Their Lost Families,” Tuesday, February 18, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Orvin T. Kimbrough, author of “Twice Over a Man: A Fierce Memoir of an Orphaned Boy Who Doggedly Determined a Finer Life,” Thursday, February 20, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Jennifer Jones, author of “Becoming Spectacular: The Rhythm of Resilience from the First African American Rockette,” Friday, February 21, 2025, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	SOLD OUT/TICKETED EVENT - Savannah Guthrie, author of “Mostly What God Does is Love You,” Saturday, February 22, 2025, 6:00 pm, Clark Family Branch
	TICKETED EVENT - Marie Benedict, author of “The Queens of Crime,” Monday, February 24, 7:00 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	John Patrick Green, author of “Agents of S.U.I.T.: Wild Ghost Chase,” Tuesday, February 25, 6:30 p.m., Clark Family Branch
	Ibi Zoboi, author of “(S)Kin,” Wednesday, February 26, 2025, Clark Family Branch
	Carl Zimmer, author of “Air-Borne: The Hidden History of the Life We Breathe,” Thursday, February 27, 2025, Clark Family Branch
	C.J. Box, author of “Battle Mountain,” Friday, February 28, 2025, Clark Family Branch
Materials Reconsideration Actions
Date Submitted                          Item                                                     Decision of Committee
11/12/2024                                Immortal Pleasures                              Retained in collection
12/9/2024                                DK Eyewitness World War II              Retained in collection
Johnny Wang asked if there were any questions. Deborah Patterson asked for more information in regards to the Accessibility tools. Eric Button responded. Deborah Patterson asked about the Born to Read program and is very interested in how we are measuring the metrics and a possible partnership with Parents and Teachers. Eric Button responded. Deborah Patterson asked Ashley Sexton if she has any insight into why there was such an increase for the annual appeal. Ms. Sexton responded. Ms. Patterson advised her to ask her donors what might have resonated with them to make a contribution. Ted Sanditz ask about service stats in the Director's Report 2021. Eric Button responded. Dr. Beckwith noted that some of the events for BHM have been changed to Clark Family Branch instead of Florissant Valley. Carla Maxwell, co-chair of the BHM committee, responded.
OLD BUSINESS
REVISIONS TO THE PENSION PLAN
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following:
The St. Louis County Library Employees’ Pension Plan was established in 1967 and has been restated four times since then with the last restatement taking place in 2015. The plan has also been amended several times over the years, mostly recently in 2022 with an increase to the benefit multiplier. In addition, the Actuarial Assumptions have been revised frequently over the years to keep up with best practices.
As discussed at the November Library Board Meeting, Library Administration and the Pension Board continue to explore options to update the Employees’ Pension Plan to provide a more contemporary and better benefit for eligible Library employees.  One of the options considered was to change the final average earnings calculation from an eligible employee’s final five years of service to their final three years of service.  The five-year final average earnings calculation has been in place since the Plan was established in 1967.
Milliman prepared a report which calculates the cost associated with implementing a change from the current five-year average for the pension benefit calculation to a three-year average. In addition, the report provides the impact on the funding ratio of the Plan. The report and recommendation were discussed and approved at the October 21, 2024 Pension Board meeting.
At the November 18, 2024 Library Board Meeting, the Board gave contingent approval of the change. The Board also approved the submission of the proposed amendment and actuarial cost statement to the Joint Committee on Public Employee Retirement (JCPER). The JCPER is required to notify the public on all Pension Plans with substantial changes by posting on their website for 45 days.  Milliman, the Library’s actuary, submitted the information to JCPER on December 5, 2024 and the waiting period concluded on January 19, 2025.
The Library Administration recommends final approval of changing the final average earnings from the a five-year average to a three-year average for the pension benefit calculation effective January 1, 2025, as a permanent change to the Library District’s Pension Plan.
Motion by Deborah Patterson, second by Lynn Beckwith.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
NEW BUSINESS
GATEWAY TO READING PRESENTATION
Laura Polak, Early Literacy Coordinator, presented on the new program Gateway to Reading. She explained the science behind the new method being taught in the schools and how the Library is adding workshops and reading kits to our collection to help parents and caregivers at home. Ms. Polak showed the board the contents of one of the kits available in the collection.
Dr. Beckwith complimented Ms. Polak on her wonderful presentation and explanation of the new program.
INVESTMENTS
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented the following.
Annually, the Library District receives most of the cash from property taxes early in the year. To maximize the amount of interest received, Library Administration issues a request for investment rate quotes from several area financial institutions. The financial institution that submits the highest yield for the total portfolio of investments is awarded the dollars to invest.
A request for investment rate quotes was sent out on January 14, 2025 and was due back no later than January 22, 2025. The total portfolio to invest in January 2025 is $20 million. The request was sent to nine St. Louis area banks and the results for the two banks who returned rate quotes are listed below.
Commerce Bank – average yield 4.2%
BOK Financial – average yield 4.2%
Because the average yield is the same, the Library is recommending Commerce Bank.  They currently provide banking services for the Library and the Library’s Pension Plan.  The selection of Commerce Bank would minimize the administrative cost of tracking multiple accounts.
The Library Administration recommends the selection of Commerce Bank who returned an average yield of all maturities at 4.2% for the investment of the entire 2025 portfolio and the Board authorizes the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Johnny Wang asked why we only received two bids. Laura Taylor and Kristen Sorth responded.
Motion by Lynn Beckwith, second by Joan Barry.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
ADJOURNMENT
Dr. Lynn Beckwith motioned to adjourn meeting, seconded by Deborah Patterson.
All approved with voice vote: Johnny Wang, Deborah Patterson, Joan Barry, Lynn Beckwith, Ted Sanditz
Meeting adjourned at 4:36 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
__________________________________                              _____________
Joan Barry                                                                              Date
Secretary