{
  "name": "Regular Meeting  - May 18 2026",
  "description": "1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131",
  "meeting_id": 234,
  "date": "2026-05-18"
}

---

Regular Meeting - May 18 2026 - Minutes - Html
Split-screen / Notes
Regular Meeting - May 18, 2026 Minutes
Monday, May 18, 2026, at 3:30 PM
1640 S. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63131
1.
CALL TO ORDER
A.
Roll Call
Library Board Members
Present:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Absent:
May Scheve Reardon
Administrators and Other Guests Present:
Kristen Sorth, Eric Button, Roberto Munster, Laura Taylor, Jennifer Gibson, Jennifer McBride, Gib Van Cleve, Lisa Stump, Lashly and Baer
Others Attending:
Kelli Reeves, Asha Norman, Spring Galey, Ashley Sexton, Alyssa Diekman, Katie Keeven, Cameron Riesenberger, Rachel Dippel, Carrie Robb, Anne Arthur, Laura Kasak, Sarah Brown, Kim Goldschmidt, Melissa Bauer, Ja’Mel McCain, Andrew Freshwater, Adeline Chow, Brent Trout, Andrea Johnson, Melissa Hupp, Sarah Kuntz Jones, Stephanie Nordmann, Emily Althoff, Chris Goodman, Miranda Gibson, Meredith Hopping, Crystal Harris, Meghan Gillen, Arianna Amann, Hallie Roll, Jenna Garofolo, Mazie Rudolf, Cole Sawyer, Janie Stamm, Nikole Brown, Nicole Walsh, Nicole Clawson, Lindsey Piech, Trista Doyle, Stacy Berger, Tarza Tawfiq and Becky Tafra Catlett
2.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A.
Approval of April 13, 2026, Minutes
Administration recommended approval of the April 13
, 2026, minutes.
Moved by:
Deborah Patterson; seconded by: Lynn Beckwith
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
3.
PUBLIC COMMENTS
A.
Public Comments
No one spoke before the Board.
4.
REPORTS
A.
Treasurer's Report - March 2026
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented.
Administration recommended approval of the March 2026 Treasurer's Report, subject to audit.
Moved by:
Lynn Beckwith; seconded by: Ted Sanditz
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
B.
Treasurer's Report - April 2026
Laura Taylor, CFO, presented.
Administration recommended approval of the April 2026 Treasurer's Report, subject to audit.
Moved by:
Deborah Patterson; seconded by: Lynn Beckwith
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
C.
Director and CEO's Report
Ms. Sorth reported that the Library continued to demonstrate strong engagement with patrons by providing library resources and services. Patrons used the collection, attended programs, received technology and RECA assistance, visited branches and specialized service areas, and accessed digital resources. Library employees also completed important behind-the-scenes work to prepare materials, support branch displays, and connect patrons with resources. Overall, the month reflects the Library’s ongoing role as a community resource for access, learning, discovery, and support. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b, 2b)
Circulation in April 2026 totaled 903,701. This is a 2% decrease from circulation in April 2025. Circulation increased at the following locations:
Daniel Boone
+14%
Thornhill
+10%
Clark Family
+7%
In September 2025, the Library began retaining new material at the branches for 12 months, rather than 6 months. The result has been a significant increase in the circulation of new material. For example, in March and April 2026, the circulation of new material circulation saw a 15% increase in circulation over the same period in 2025.
The Library welcomed 283,200 visitors to branches and bookmobiles in April, 2026. This is an increase of 1.2% over the number of visitors in April, 2025.
Branches with a significant increase in visits include:
Thornhill    +10%
Clark Family
+9%
Florissant Valley
+9%
This month, the Dashboard includes a chart that details how Library meeting rooms are used.
Ms. Sorth announced starting Saturday, May 30, 2026, nine branches will have Hero Quest exhibits on display, featuring historical heroes from the popular children’s book series Ordinary People Change the World by award-winning author Brad Meltzer and illustrator Chris Eliopoulos.
The life-size book displays were created by The Magic House.
Six Hero Quest exhibits will be on display at select St. Louis Public Library branches.
Author Brad Meltzer will be at the Clark Family Branch for an author event on October 8 in celebration of the Hero Quest project
Hero Quest Exhibits at SLCL:
Parkview: Harriet Tubman
Rock Road: Amelia Earhart
Lewis & Clark: Sacagawea
Daniel Boone: Albert Einstein
Clark Family: George Washington
Grant's View: Ben Franklin
Oak Bend: Abraham Lincoln
Florissant Valley: George Washington Carver
Grand Glaize: Helen Keller
A Hero Quest passport with details about the scavenger hunt will be available at all participating St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library branches, The Magic House, and online through the Hero Quest website. By visiting libraries throughout the region, families who find at least six of the 15 diverse heroes featured in the quest will receive a free Ordinary People Change the World book at the participating library branches. The Cataloging and Processing Departments are preparing Hero Quest titles that will be on display at select branches this summer. There are nearly 2,000 copies of 33 titles.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Increase Access 1a)
Employees from the Rock Road and Youth Services attended Telemundo’s Dia del Niño celebration at Westport and talked about Library resources with an estimated 1000 people. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, 1b, 1c, 2a, 2d)
Ms. Sorth shared that this year’s Community Autism Expo shattered records as our biggest one yet, welcoming 1,149 attendees and over 50 local organizations.
This is a 70% increase from last year. The event featured three different breakout sessions tackling vital topics like managing life transitions and navigating late-discovery adult diagnosis, along with the opportunity to meet and connect with community resources.
There were activities in various parts of the branch as well.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 3c, Sense of Community 1a, 3b)
For four seasons now, patrons have enjoyed a complimentary shuttle service and $30 mainstage tickets to see shows at The Reparatory Theater of St. Louis. The shuttle is provided for free thanks to The Rep and the Library Foundation. This year, every Shuttle to The Rep reached full capacity for the first time.
In addition to the established shuttles from the Florissant Valley Branch, we are pleased to announce an expansion to the Daniel Boone Branch for three shows during the upcoming season. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
Volunteers from AARP, CORP, Gateway EITC, and St. Louis Tax Assistance Program provided free in-person tax assistance at ten branches this year, helping over 2,100 patrons. (Plan: Sense of Community 3c)
The Library participated in the St. Louis Earth Day Festival on April 25 and 26 at Forest Park. More than 1,900 people visited the Library’s table, where the Adult Services team and employees from branches, bookmobiles, the Staff Development Cohort, and the Foundation shared information about upcoming programs.
More than 1,000 attendees picked up popular native pollinator seed packets as part of the event's giveaways. Many attendees also expressed interest in returning to the park for the Play Day in the Park and STL Summer Adventure Kickoff on May 30. (Plan: Sense of Community 2b, 2d)
Ms. Sorth shared the Opera Theatre of Saint Louis presented a special Season Preview concert at the Clark Family Branch on Saturday, April 25. Hosted by Executive Director Andrew Jorgensen, the free community event offered audiences a preview of the company’s 51st Festival Season through selections from opera and musical theatre repertoire. 365 patrons attended the program, which highlighted works featured in the upcoming season, including The Pirates of Penzance, A Streetcar Named Desire, Romeo and Juliet, and The Light in the Piazza. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
The Adult Summer Reading Club starts on June 1
st
.
Patrons can pick up their book upon registration at any branch. Participants then track pages or minutes to accumulate points, which result in prizes at various levels.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, 1b)
Ms. Sorth reported forty teens attended a teen after hours social event at the Lewis & Clark Branch on Friday, May 8 from 6:00-7:30 p.m. The event included roller skating, video games, crafts, pizza and a DJ. The program was made possible through a grant from the St. Louis Area Violence Prevention Commission. The commission works to reduce violent crime in the region by promoting and advocating for coordinated, well-resourced policies, support systems, and interventions among area governments, institutions and agencies that serve individuals and families most at risk of violent crime.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3b)
The Library partnered with Neighborhood Forest and gave away over 2,000 bald cypress trees in celebration of Earth Week. Trees were given away at Clark Family, Daniel Boone, Florissant Valley and Grand Glaize. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
Youth Services has selected four Sidney Johnson Teen Interns for this summer. The interns will attend the July Library Board Meeting. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3a, Sense of Community 3b)
Leanna Haynes, 16, is a homeschool student entering her junior year in the fall.
Raykell Brandon, 16, will be a junior at STEAM Academy at McCluer South Berkeley
Pedro Hamamoto, 16, will be a junior at Lafayette High School
Adelaide Dillow, 16, will be a junior at Bayless High School
Ms. Sorth announced on Saturday, May 30, the STL Summer Adventure will begin with a fun-filled day at the Visitor’s Center in Forest Park. St. Louis County Library and St. Louis Public Library will again join forces with Play Day in the Park to celebrate the importance of play and to jumpstart STL Summer Adventure. The libraries will host a large tent where families will sign up for STL Summer Adventure and pick up their free book. STL Summer Adventure will officially run June 1-August 10. Marketing Assistant Bella Marcallini created a promo video for this year's STL Summer Adventure program. The video will be shown during school visits and on social media.
https://youtu.be/iP26HN422Qs
(Plan: Promote Literacy 2a, 3d, Sense of Community 2d, Increase Access 2d)
The Library is thrilled to announce an exciting new partnership with MADE Makerspace, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit dedicated to helping St. Louisans create and connect. Located in the heart of the city’s maker community, MADE offers a massive workspace filled with professional-grade tools for woodworking, sewing, metalworking, 3D printing, and more. Through the generous support of Clark Family funds, SLCL is now offering patrons the opportunity to attend specialized classes at MADE’s facility. Much like our popular offsite cooking programs with Operation Food Search, this partnership allows the Library to tap into MADE’s talented instructors and cutting-edge resources to provide hands-on experiences you won't find anywhere else. This partnership represents a commitment to providing St. Louisans with the tools and knowledge to turn ideas into reality.
Starting this summer, SLCL will offer monthly program opportunities at MADE’s facility. While the partnership generally features one program per month, select months will double the impact with two sessions: one specifically for adults and one for teens.
The Library will manage all marketing and registrations, while MADE provides access to their elite roster of presenters and an impressive array of tools, including equipment for woodworking, sewing, metalworking, and 3D printing. The partnership officially kicks off on Saturday, June 20, with a Custom Soap Mold Making workshop.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
National Library Outreach Day (formerly National Bookmobile Day) was a major highlight for the department in April, showcasing the creativity and community impact of the mobile services team. Celebrations took place from April 20th through April 22nd, with employees hosting high-energy events like the Five Nights at Freddy’s Escape Room at Griffith Elementary and a "Read and Rave" dance party at Beasley Elementary, providing students with a much-needed break during MAP testing. The POP Program at Covenant 4 Life CDC successfully introduced new mini bookmobiles to younger patrons, while senior outreach included the distribution of approximately 100 thoughtful goody bags. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 2a, Sense of Community 2b, 2d)
During the first four months of the year, the Inter Library Loan (ILL) Department assisted Library patrons with borrowing 5,018 items that are not a part of our collection via MOBIUS or traditional Interlibrary Loan. During the same period, the department also facilitated loaning 3,685 of SLCL items to other libraries across the US - including 146 loans or PDF scans of items in SLCL's highly specialized and sought after-H&G collection. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1a, Sense of Community 3a)
Ms. Sorth reported that the Library has a number of upcoming events and drives in partnership with various community organizations
The Library will host a band and orchestra instrument drive benefiting the Sheldon tin June. Donations are accepted at all branches and the Beck. The Sheldon refurbishes the instruments, then gets them into the hands of St. Louis area students. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
The Library will host a school supply drive on behalf of Little Bit Foundation throughout the Month of July. Donations are accepted at all branches and the Beck. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
Eye Thrive will visit again this Summer at Florissant Valley, Weber Road, Natural Bridge and Lewis & Clark where they will offer free eye exams and glasses for children. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
Gateway to Oral Health will offer free dental exams, dental cleanings and dental services to Children at Lewis & Clark.
(Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
Summer Lunches and Pizza Fridays will take place again this summer in partnership with Operation Food Search (OFS) at Florissant Valley, Natural Bridge, Lewis & Clark, Rock Road, Prairie Commons and Weber Road.
From June 1st through August 14
th
, lunches will be available to children ages 0-18 from 12pm-1pm. On Monday through Thursday, lunches are provided by OFS. On Friday, the Foundation supports Pizza Fridays. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3c)
inExcelsis’ Mobile Shower unit “Dignity on Wheels” will begin their season starting May 14th, offering free showers to patrons until the end of October. The showers will be offered every Thursday alternating locations between Natural Bridge and Rock Road. The Library’s social workers are able to arrange transportation from any branch for patrons who wish to utilize the service. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
•
Ms. Sorth reported that the Library is partnering with Nine PBS and St. Louis Magazine to host community convenings regarding the upcoming election for St. Louis County Executive position.
These took place last week at Lewis & Clark, Grant’s View, Clark Family and Daniel Boone.
They also plan to conduct interviews with the candidates at various branches that will be recorded and shared on Nine PBS.
•
The Library will host a series of programs for Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) month.
The programs are listed in a brochure designed by the Communications Department.
•
Ms. Sorth announced the Library is embarking on a new partnership with St. Louis Magazine to host a monthly event for working families with children ages 3-9. The new St. Louis Kids Book Club series will take place on the second Thursday of each month at a rotating branch. The event invites parents and kids to come together for a shared experience centered on community, early literacy and kid-friendly fun. Each event will feature a thoughtfully selected book, a brief librarian-led read-aloud, and a simple hands-on activity. After the program, families are encouraged to explore the library, discover branch offerings, and build lasting habits focused on reading and learning together. All promotions for the series will be handled by St. Louis Magazine, with the goal of reaching a new audience outside of the library’s regular marketing channels. St. Louis Magazine will also handle event registration. Attendees will receive a bookmark passport; families who attend all Kids Book Club events will be eligible for a prize.
The 2026 St. Louis Kids Book Club Schedule is as follows: (Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, Sense of Community 3a, Increase Access 1a)
o
May 14 | Grant’s View | “The Very Impatient Caterpillar” by Ross Burach
o
June 11 | Florissant Valley | “Jumper” by Jessica Lanan
o
July 9 | Grand Glaize | “Henri’s Scissors” by Jeanette Winter
o
August 13 | Clark Family | “I Eat Poop” by Mark Pett
o
September 10 | Meramec Valley | “The Future Book” by Mac Barnett
o
October 8 | Prairie Commons | “This Is Orange” by Rachel Poliquin
o
November 12 | Daniel Boone | “Balloons Over Broadway: The True Story of the Puppeteer of Macy’s Parade” by Melissa Sweet
o
December 10 | Parkview | “A Gift of Dust” by Martha Brockenbrough
o
January 14 | Cliff Cave | “The Escape Artist: A True Story of Octopus Adventure” by Thor Hanson
o
February 11 | Eureka Hills | “The House in the Night” by Susan Marie Swanson
o
March 11 | Thornhill | TBD
o
April 8 | Weber Road | TBD
•
There were mentions of the St. Louis County Library in the local media in print, radio and television. Those articles are
attached. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
•
Ms. Sorth shared pictures from various events and programs that have taken place over the last two months, including:
Civil Dialogues at Clark Family, Fairytale Dance at Rock Road, Prepare with Pedro at Weber Road, Bookmobile at Griffith Elementary, Earth Week Tree Pickup at Daniel Boone, Elephant & Piggy at Cliff Cave and Floral Lei at Clark Family.
(Plan: Promote Literacy 1b, 1c, 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
Ms. Sorth shared the following impact stories
The Program Director from the International Storytelling Center reached out to Becky. They had seen our website and called to discuss some of our tellers that they are interested in. “I always enjoy seeing the SLCL lineup—you do such a nice job of balancing different perspectives and voices, and I love that the festival is free and accessible to the community.” (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Increase Access 2c)
Regarding author events, “Your caption system is absolutely incredible because the way it matched up so well with words being said. I had a bad experience in middle school with an assisting device for me and haven’t even thought about how much better and advanced it probably is now.”
A Tap In Center client sent the following message.
"From the bottom of my heart thank you. I had no idea where to start and this warrant has held me back in every aspect of my life. I have no idea if you are a volunteer or in a paid position but either way let it be known you are appreciated and doing amazing things for the people of our great city. And again, thank you."
Parkview’s Youth Services Librarian checked out a YA book that had this
adorable note
in it.
From a parent about his child who attended the Steve Brusatte author event for “The Story of Birds:
A New History from their Dinosaur Origins to the Present”. “He talked about gorilla- sized penguins the rest of the night! We were so excited when you announced Steve was coming. Josh and I have read the age of dinosaur’s book twice. Thank you for all of the wonderful events and authors you bring to our area! These are memories that are irreplaceable - unforgettable - impactful. And have become some of my favorite memories with my kiddo.”
A patron said the location-based library merchandise meant so much to her family. Her grandmother was a Prairie Commons loyal patron (she said everyone knew her there) and she recently died. The woman bought all her family members the Prairie Commons tote bag to remember her grandma. The woman started crying when we spoke...it was really sweet. She wanted to thank you all for all you do!
SLCL librarians, We moved here almost one year From a small town (Canton, IL). We have been so so glad to find SLCL (with the Thonhill branch right near our new homed) We have visited a number of branches, read book, participated in a number of programs. What a great resource and blessing SLCL is to all of us in St. Louis County.
We celebrate Library Week with you! God bless you all! Thank you for your kindness and helpfulness as we navigated a move to a new city. You have been so welcoming and caring.
Library Administrative Updates
Ms. Sorth reported that the Library and Epworth have been jointly interviewing candidates for two social worker positions.
Olivia Gilbert has been hired for the Natural Bridge position and Alejandra Ahern will fill the role at Lewis & Clark. Both Olivia and Alejandra will begin at Epworth on June 1st. They will begin reporting to their respective branches in early June after some initial training and onboarding with Epworth.
Olivia Gilbert is graduating with her MSW from the Brown School of Social Work at Wash-U this May. Olivia also has a BA in Psychological and Brain Sciences with a minor in Women, Gender & Sexuality Studies as well as a minor in Music from Wash-U. During her time at Wash-U, she was a founding member of Libraries for Liberation, which was a student-run club aimed at promoting literacy and library access among incarcerated youth in St. Louis County. She also worked as a practicum student at St. Louis Crisis Nursery and Family Forward.
Alejandra Ahern is graduating with her MSW from the Brown School of Social Work at Wash-U this May. She also has a BA in Political Science with a minor in Journalism from Asbury University. She previously worked at Community Action Agency of St. Louis County as a case manager. She also worked as a practicum student for Legal Services of Eastern Missouri’s housing department and DeSales Community Development.
In addition, Epworth has been interviewing practicum candidates and has hired three students.
Miranda Gibson, Assistant Manager of Justice Services, was named a Library Journal Mover and Shaker for 2026.
Miranda was selected as a Change Agent due to her work establishing the highly successful Tap in Center and the work she does with the Transition Center of St. Louis, connecting residents to workforce resources.
The Tap In Center saw a record month in April. During the two-week period beginning April 14, 707 intake forms were completed after multiple happy clients shared their experiences on social media. In total, the Tap In Center requested 1,100 warrant recalls in April alone.
For comparison, just over 1,100 warrant recalls were requested during all of the first quarter combined, meaning the Tap In Center requested nearly the same number of warrant recalls in just two weeks as it had during the previous three months. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a, 3b, 3c)
Ms. Sorth announced with support from EMD Consulting, the Library hired Stacy Brown as the new Assistant Director for Human Resources. Her first day will be June 1 and we will introduce her at the next Board meeting. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
Ms. Sorth accepted an invitation to join the St. Louis Sports Commission.
The St. Louis Sports Commission is the independent, privately-funded nonprofit organization that makes St. Louis a better place to live, visit, work and play through sports. Its efforts focus on attracting, creating and managing major sporting events for the St. Louis region.
On April 28, the Library launched a strategic planning community engagement website and sent a survey to patrons. In just the first few days, over 8,000 people responded to the survey. Typically, OrangeBoy looks for 2,000-3,000 responses in the first week as a sign of success. As of May 12, the survey had collected over 14,500 responses, 9,800 of which are complete. From May 11-14, the OrangeBoy strategic planning team visited in-person to conduct community focus groups, collect feedback in areas with lower survey responses, attend community and author events to talk to patrons, and hold an employee workshop with managers and assistant managers at the May 14 Managers’ Meeting. The next phase of the planning process will focus on collecting feedback from and sharing information with Library employees. (Plan: Sense of Community 1a, Increase Access 2c)
On Sunday, April 26, the Library hosted Gather and Glow at the Saint Louis Zoo. This employee appreciation event was held in conjunction with the Animals Aglow lantern festival. The evening featured illuminated animal and plant sculptures throughout the Zoo grounds, including dragons, bears, frogs, butterflies, and orchids. The weather was beautiful and as the sun was setting, the lanterns lit up the walking paths. Employees were welcomed at The Living World, where they enjoyed an array of refreshments, including cake. The event provided a unique opportunity for employees to connect outside of the work environment and have a wonderful evening with their families in a joyful setting. Feedback from employees was overwhelmingly positive, with many expressing appreciation for the experience and enthusiasm for continuing this new tradition in future years. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c)
The Library's employee-led Green Team recently hosted a successful "Purge and Splurge" sustainability event at the Oak Bend Branch on Sunday, May 3rd. This staff-only swap promoted environmental stewardship and system-wide engagement by allowing employees to drop off gently used items and "shop" the donations for new-to-them treasures. There were books, housewares, decorations, crafting supplies, clothes, shoes, and more. Over 40 employees stopped by to drop off goods or browse the collection. To further our community impact and keep perfectly usable items out of local landfills, remaining items at the end of the event were packed up and donated to the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA). A total of 25 bags and boxes were donated. (Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 3a)
Ms. Sorth reported the Clark Family Branch will be closed all day on Saturday, July 18, 2026, to host the Home School Resource Fair. (Plan: Sense of Community 3a)
The Clark Family Branch will close early at 4:00 p.m. on July 30, 2026, to host the third annual Backstage Pass event with the Rep, which is launching its 60th season. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3d, Sense of Community 3a)
National Library Week took place April 19-25. This year’s theme was “Find Your Joy.” We celebrated with the new Branch Out Library cards, Branch Out T-shirts for every employee, fun content on social media, coverage of special bookmobile events at area schools, and an eBlast to lapsed patrons inviting them back to the Library. (Plan: Increase Access 2)
The 2026 Staff Development Cohort has started.
The Cohort is the Library’s professional development cohort for non-management employees. It is designed to foster the interests of future leaders by bridging the gap between daily operations and system-wide strategy. The cohort will gain access to leadership and learn about the inner workings of the Library to satisfy their curiosity.
Tarza Tawfiq, Employee Engagement Coordinator, introduced the 2026 cohort members to the Board, including:
Cole Sawyer, Adult Programming Coordinator, Adult Services
Meghan Gillen, Library Associate, Cliff Cave Branch
Arianna Amann, Library Associate, Lewis & Clark Branch
Mazie Rudolph, Library Associate, Grand Glaize Branch
Janie Stamm, Library Associate, Eureka Hills Branch
Jenna Garofolo, Library Associate, Prairie Commons Branch
Hallie Roll, Library Associate, Parkview Branch
(Plan: Sense of Community 1c, 1d)
Library Construction, Facility, IT and Transportation Update
Ms. Sorth reported that the temporary fencing has been installed on site of the new Jaffe Branch. The Library received the building permit on May 8 and the demolition of the existing building will begin shortly. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
Work should begin on the replacement of the Grand Glaize boiler in the next few weeks.
The parts have all been purchased and staged for installation while waiting for warmer temperatures.
The heating system will be offline during the installation process. (Plan: Increase Access 1c)
As mentioned during the discussion of the new Jaffe Branch, the Clark Family Branch will soon include a coffee cart from Goshen Coffee.
We are piloting this cart and may expand to other locations depending on its success. The plans for the cart are currently with the St. Louis County Health Department.
Library Foundation and Grants
Ms. Sorth shared that the Foundation hosted its first Take Action for Libraries Day 24-hour giving campaign on April 23. The campaign was successful and raised $37,928, which was over the original goal of $10,000.
The giving campaign resulted in 200 first-time donors.
The campaign also resulted in a boom of items purchased from the merchandise store and in friends' memberships. The Foundation plans to host again next year. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
The Annual Donor Breakfast was hosted this morning at the Clark Family Branch. The event welcomed 100 friends and donors to meet and hear from this year’s visiting author, Christina Baker Kline. The public author event will take place this evening at 7:00 p.m. (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c, Increase Access 2c)
The Prologue Society (Young Professionals) is hosting a fundraiser night with St. Louis FC Ambush on Saturday, June 27th. A portion of tickets purchased with a special code will be donated to the Library Foundation. (Plan: Increase Access 2c)
Grants:
The Library received a $31,298 LSTA (Library Services and Technology Act) Technology Ladder grant to support the replacement of several public printers in Library branches. (Plan: Promote Literacy 3b)
Author Events (Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
2026 Stats - Year-to-date:
Events: 65
Attendance: 16,870
(Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
Ms. Sorth shared that the Library hosted bestselling author Tui Sutherland for an all-day festival on May 2 in celebration of the Wings of Fire universe. The festival included engaging activities, epic photo opportunities, in-depth book discussions and the camaraderie of fellow fans.
The event was an instant sell out.
800 people attended and several traveled from all over the United States to attend.
In the last year, we have been exploring the option of hosting a new author series that would focus on business-related books.
The series would be similar to the medical author series that has become very popular.
Ms. Sorth has had conversations with both Greater St. Louis Inc. (GSL) and the St. Louis Business Journal and both have committed to sponsoring the author series.
She is working with Greater St. Louis Inc. on a multi-year sponsorship agreement, with GSL as the lead sponsor.
The Business Journal has already committed as a sponsor and will provide extensive publicity for the author events and other Library-related events.
May/June Author Events
Christina Baker Kline, “The Foursome,” Monday, May 18, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Joe Posnanski and Michael Schur, “Big Fan: Two Friends, 82,490 Miles, and the Wild Wonderful Sports We Love,” Wednesday, May 20, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
Soman Chainani, “Young World,” Thursday, May 21, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Katherine Center, “The Shippers,” Friday, May 22, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
Senator Chris Murphy, “Crisis of the Common Good: The Fight for Meaning and Connection in a Broken America
” - Friday, May 29
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
Walter Mosley, “Ghalen,” Tuesday, June 2,
7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Jayne Anne Phillips, “Small Town Girls: A Memoir, Thursday, June 4
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Robert Macfarlane, “The Book of Birds: A Field Guide to Wonder and Loss,” Friday, June 5
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Brooke Averick, “Phoebe Berman’s Gonna Lose It,” Saturday, June 6
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
Craig Johnson, “The Brothers McKay: A Longmire Mystery,” Monday, June 8
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Dave Eggers, “Contrapposto,” Tuesday, June 9
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Ticketed
Mary Kay Andrews, “Road Trip,” Wednesday, June 10
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Wil Haygood, “The War Within a War: The Black Struggle in Vietnam and at Home,” Thursday, June 11
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Nicholas Epley, “A Little Bit Social: How Small Choices Create Unexpected Health, Happiness, and Connection,” Monday, June 15
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Martin Walker, “A Murder in Springtime: A Bruno, Chief of Police Novel,” Tuesday, June 16
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Andrew Sean Greer, “Villa Coco,” Wednesday, June 17
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Ben Rhodes, “All We Say: The Battle For American Identity–In Fifteen Speeches,” Saturday, June 20,
7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Laura Kamoie, “A Founding Mother: A Novel of Abigail Adams,” Monday, June 22
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Chris Smalls, “When the Revolution Comes: A Fight for the Future of the Working Class,” Wednesday, June 24
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Leroy Chiao, “Dinner with an Astronaut: Serving Space Stories–Past, Present and Future,” Friday, June 26
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
Maggie O’Farrell, “Land,” Monday, June 29,
7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch – Ticketed
Beatriz Williams, “When You Loved Me,” Tuesday, June 30
, 7:00 p.m. - Clark Family Branch - Free
(Plan: Promote Literacy 1c)
5.
OLD BUSINESS
A.
None
A.
Google Workspace Renewal
Gib Van Cleve, Assistant Director, IT, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommended the approval of a new contract with Cumulus Global for 60 months of Google Workspace and Archive services at a total cost of $594,150, that will commence on July 1, 2026 and that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Google Workspace and Archive are included in the 2026 IT budget.
Dr. Beckwith asked how many years the current contract is for and why we went from a three-year contract to a five-year contract. Mr. Van Cleve responded.
Moved by:
Lynn Beckwith; seconded by: Deborah Patterson
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
B.
Boiler Replacement - Cliff Cave Branch
Kelli Reeves, Manager, Facilities, presented the recommendation.
Library Administration recommended that the Library Board select American Boiler Services, Inc. to provide the boiler replacement for the Cliff Cave Branch for the amount of $170,805, and that the Board authorize the Director and CEO to enter into and execute a contract to that effect.
Moved by:
Deborah Patterson; seconded by: Lynn Beckwith
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
7.
ADJOURNMENT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
A.
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
Motion to adjourn open meeting and to convene Executive Session to discuss legal matters (Section 610.021(1)).
Moved by:
Lynn Beckwith; seconded by: Deborah Patterson
Aye:
Johnny Wang, Ted Sanditz, Lynn Beckwith, and Deborah Patterson
Motion Carries 4-0
Adjourned at 4:22 pm
6.
NEW BUSINESS
May Scheve Reardon
Board Secretary
